IFRS 1 — First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the pro­ce­dures that an entity must follow when it adopts IFRSs for the first time as the basis for preparing its general purpose financial state­ments. The IFRS grants limited ex­emp­tions from the general re­quire­ment to comply with each IFRS effective at the end of its first IFRS reporting period.
A re­struc­tured version of IFRS 1 was issued in November 2008 and applies if an entity's first IFRS financial state­ments are for a period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
History of IFRS 1
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
September 2001 Project added to IASB agenda History of the project
31 July 2002 Exposure Draft ED 1 First-time Ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRSs published Comment deadline 31 October 2002
June 2003 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRSs issued Effective for the first IFRS financial state­ments for a period beginning on or after 1 January 2004
30 June 2005 Amended by Amend­ments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 6 Ex­plo­ration for and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources (more in­for­ma­tion) A minor amendment to clarify that the exemption in relation to IFRS 6 applies to the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments of IFRS 6, as well as the dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments.
22 May 2008 Amended by Amend­ments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 — Cost of an In­vest­ment in a Sub­sidiary, Jointly Con­trolled Entity or Associate Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
24 November 2008 Re­struc­tured version of IFRS 1 issued Effective if an entity's first IFRS financial state­ments are for a period beginning on or after 1 July 2009
23 July 2009 Amended by Ad­di­tional Ex­emp­tions for First-time Adopters (Amend­ments to IFRS 1) (oil and gas assets, leases). Click for more in­for­ma­tion. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
29 January 2010 Amended by Limited Exemption from Com­par­a­tive IFRS 7 Dis­clo­sures for First-time Adopters (Amendment to IFRS 1). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for or annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010
6 May 2010 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (accounting policies changes, reval­u­a­tion basis as deemed cost, rate reg­u­la­tion) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011
20 December 2010 Amended by Severe Hy­per­in­fla­tion and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters (Amendment to IFRS 1). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on
or after 1 July 2011
13 March 2012 Amended by Gov­ern­ment Loans (Amend­ments to IFRS 1). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
17 May 2012 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments 2009-2011 Cycle (repeat ap­pli­ca­tion, borrowing costs). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle (meaning of effective IFRSs). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Amendment to basis for con­clu­sions only
8 December 2016 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2014–2016 Cycle (Deletion of short-term ex­emp­tions for first-time adopters). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
14 May 2020 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2018–2020 (sub­sidiary as a first-time adopter). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
Note: The above summary does not include details of con­se­quen­tial amend­ments made as the result of other projects.
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRS 1 su­per­sedes SIC-8 First-time Ap­pli­ca­tion of IASs as the Primary Basis of Accounting
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion
none
Deloitte Guide to IFRS 1 (November 2009)
  In November 2009, Deloitte's IFRS Global Office published a revised Guide to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. The guide was first published in 2004 with the aim of providing first-time adopters with helpful insights for the ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRS 1. This second edition has the same objective. We have updated the content to reflect the lessons learned from the first major wave of IFRS adoption in 2005, as well as for the changes to IFRS 1 since 2004. We have struc­tured the guide to provide users with an ac­ces­si­ble reference manual:
An executive summary explains the most important features of IFRS 1;
Section 2 provides an overview of the re­quire­ments of the Standard;
Sections 3 and 4 cover the specific ex­cep­tions and ex­emp­tions from IFRS 1's general principle of ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRSs, focusing on key im­ple­men­ta­tion issues;
Section 5 addresses other com­po­nents of financial state­ments where im­ple­men­ta­tion issues fre­quently arise in practice;
Section 6 sets out Q&As dealing with specific fact patterns that users may encounter in practice; and
Section 7 discusses some of the practical im­ple­men­ta­tion decisions faced by first-time adopters.
Click to Download Deloitte's Guide to IFRS 1 (PDF 435k)
Summary of IFRS 1
Objective
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards sets out the pro­ce­dures that an entity must follow when it adopts IFRSs for the first time as the basis for preparing its general purpose financial state­ments.
Note: An entity that conducts rate-reg­u­lated ac­tiv­i­ties and has recog­nised amounts in its previous GAAP financial state­ments that meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of 'reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances' (sometimes referred to 'reg­u­la­tory assets' and 'reg­u­la­tory li­a­bil­i­ties') can op­tion­ally apply IFRS 14 Reg­u­la­tory Deferral Accounts in addition to IFRS 1. An entity that elects to apply IFRS 14 in its first IFRS financial state­ments must continue to apply it in sub­se­quent financial state­ments.
De­f­i­n­i­tion of first-time adoption
A first-time adopter is an entity that, for the first time, makes an explicit and un­re­served statement that its general purpose financial state­ments comply with IFRSs. [IFRS 1.3]
An entity may be a first-time adopter if, in the preceding year, it prepared IFRS financial state­ments for internal man­age­ment use, as long as those IFRS financial state­ments were not made available to owners or external parties such as investors or creditors. If a set of IFRS financial state­ments was, for any reason, made available to owners or external parties in the preceding year, then the entity will already be con­sid­ered to be on IFRSs, and IFRS 1 does not apply. [IFRS 1.3]
An entity can also be a first-time adopter if, in the preceding year, its financial state­ments: [IFRS 1.3]
asserted com­pli­ance with some but not all IFRSs, or
included only a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of selected figures from previous GAAP to IFRSs. (Previous GAAP means the GAAP that an entity followed im­me­di­ately before adopting to IFRSs.)
However, an entity is not a first-time adopter if, in the preceding year, its financial state­ments asserted:
Com­pli­ance with IFRSs even if the auditor's report contained a qual­i­fi­ca­tion with respect to con­for­mity with IFRSs.
Com­pli­ance with both previous GAAP and IFRSs.
An entity that applied IFRSs in a previous reporting period, but whose most recent previous annual financial state­ments did not contain an explicit and un­re­served statement of com­pli­ance with IFRSs can choose to:
apply the re­quire­ments of IFRS 1 (including the various permitted ex­emp­tions to full ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion), or
ret­ro­spec­tively apply IFRSs in ac­cor­dance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, as if it never stopped applying IFRSs. [IFRS 1.4A]
Overview for an entity that adopts IFRSs for the first time in its annual financial state­ments for the year ended 31 December 2014
Accounting policies
Select accounting policies based on IFRSs effective at 31 December 2014.
IFRS reporting periods
Prepare at least 2014 and 2013 financial state­ments and the opening statement of financial position (as of 1 January 2013 or beginning of the first period for which full com­par­a­tive financial state­ments are presented, if earlier) by applying the IFRSs effective at 31 December 2014. [IFRS 1.7]
Since IAS 1 requires that at least one year of com­par­a­tive prior period financial in­for­ma­tion be presented, the opening statement of financial position will be 1 January 2013 if not earlier. This would mean that an entity's first financial state­ments should include at least: [IFRS 1.21]
three state­ments of financial position
two state­ments of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income
two separate state­ments of profit or loss (if presented)
two state­ments of cash flows
two state­ments of changes in equity, and
related notes, including com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion
If a 31 December 2014 adopter reports selected financial data (but not full financial state­ments) on an IFRS basis for periods prior to 2013, in addition to full financial state­ments for 2014 and 2013, that does not change the fact that its opening IFRS statement of financial position is as of 1 January 2013.
Ad­just­ments required to move from previous GAAP to IFRSs at the time of first-time adoption
Dere­cog­ni­tion of some previous GAAP assets and li­a­bil­i­ties
The entity should eliminate pre­vi­ous-GAAP assets and li­a­bil­i­ties from the opening statement of financial position if they do not qualify for recog­ni­tion under IFRSs. [IFRS 1.10(b)] For example:
IAS 38 does not permit recog­ni­tion of ex­pen­di­ture on any of the following as an in­tan­gi­ble asset:
research
start-up, pre-op­er­at­ing, and pre-open­ing costs
training
ad­ver­tis­ing and promotion
moving and re­lo­ca­tion
If the entity's previous GAAP had recog­nised these as assets, they are elim­i­nated in the opening IFRS statement of financial position
If the entity's previous GAAP had allowed accrual of li­a­bil­i­ties for "general reserves", re­struc­tur­ings, future operating losses, or major overhauls that do not meet the con­di­tions for recog­ni­tion as a provision under IAS 37, these are elim­i­nated in the opening IFRS statement of financial position
If the entity's previous GAAP had allowed recog­ni­tion of con­tin­gent assets as defined in IAS 37.10, these are elim­i­nated in the opening IFRS statement of financial position
Recog­ni­tion of some assets and li­a­bil­i­ties not recog­nised under previous GAAP
Con­versely, the entity should recognise all assets and li­a­bil­i­ties that are required to be recog­nised by IFRS even if they were never recog­nised under previous GAAP. [IFRS 1.10(a)] For example:
IAS 39 requires recog­ni­tion of all de­riv­a­tive financial assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, including embedded de­riv­a­tives. These were not recog­nised under many local GAAPs.
IAS 19 requires an employer to recognise a liability when an employee has provided service in exchange for benefits to be paid in the future. These are not just post-em­ploy­ment benefits (e.g., pension plans) but also oblig­a­tions for medical and life insurance, vacations, ter­mi­na­tion benefits, and deferred com­pen­sa­tion. In the case of 'over-funded' defined benefit plans, this would be a plan asset.
IAS 37 requires recog­ni­tion of pro­vi­sions as li­a­bil­i­ties. Examples could include an entity's oblig­a­tions for re­struc­tur­ings, onerous contracts, de­com­mis­sion­ing, re­me­di­a­tion, site restora­tion, war­ranties, guar­an­tees, and lit­i­ga­tion.
Deferred tax assets and li­a­bil­i­ties would be recog­nised in con­for­mity with IAS 12.
Re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion
The entity should re­clas­sify pre­vi­ous-GAAP opening statement of financial position items into the ap­pro­pri­ate IFRS clas­si­fi­ca­tion. [IFRS 1.10(c)] Examples:
IAS 10 does not permit clas­si­fy­ing dividends declared or proposed after the statement of financial position date as a liability at the statement of financial position date. If such liability was recog­nised under previous GAAP it would be reversed in the opening IFRS statement of financial position.
If the entity's previous GAAP had allowed treasury stock (an entity's own shares that it had purchased) to be reported as an asset, it would be re­clas­si­fied as a component of equity under IFRS.
Items clas­si­fied as iden­ti­fi­able in­tan­gi­ble assets in a business com­bi­na­tion accounted for under the previous GAAP may be required to be re­clas­si­fied as goodwill under IFRS 3 because they do not meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of an in­tan­gi­ble asset under IAS 38. The converse may also be true in some cases.
IAS 32 has prin­ci­ples for clas­si­fy­ing items as financial li­a­bil­i­ties or equity. Thus manda­to­rily re­deemable preferred shares that may have been clas­si­fied as equity under previous GAAP would be re­clas­si­fied as li­a­bil­i­ties in the opening IFRS statement of financial position.
Note that IFRS 1 makes an exception from the "split-accounting" pro­vi­sions of IAS 32. If the liability component of a compound financial in­stru­ment is no longer out­stand­ing at the date of the opening IFRS statement of financial position, the entity is not required to re­clas­sify out of retained earnings and into other equity the original equity component of the compound in­stru­ment.
The re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion principle would apply for the purpose of defining re­portable segments under IFRS 8.
Some off­set­ting (netting) of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties or of income and expense items that had been ac­cept­able under previous GAAP may no longer be ac­cept­able under IFRS.
Mea­sure­ment
The general mea­sure­ment principle – there are several sig­nif­i­cant ex­cep­tions noted below – is to apply effective IFRSs in measuring all recog­nised assets and li­a­bil­i­ties. [IFRS 1.10(d)]
How to recognise ad­just­ments required to move from previous GAAP to IFRSs
Ad­just­ments required to move from previous GAAP to IFRSs at the date of tran­si­tion should be recog­nised directly in retained earnings or, if ap­pro­pri­ate, another category of equity at the date of tran­si­tion to IFRSs. [IFRS 1.11]
Estimates
In preparing IFRS estimates at the date of tran­si­tion to IFRSs ret­ro­spec­tively, the entity must use the inputs and as­sump­tions that had been used to determine previous GAAP estimates as of that date (after ad­just­ments to reflect any dif­fer­ences in accounting policies). The entity is not permitted to use in­for­ma­tion that became available only after the previous GAAP estimates were made except to correct an error. [IFRS 1.14]
Changes to dis­clo­sures
For many entities, new areas of dis­clo­sure will be added that were not re­quire­ments under the previous GAAP (perhaps segment in­for­ma­tion, earnings per share, dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions, con­tin­gen­cies and fair values of all financial in­stru­ments) and dis­clo­sures that had been required under previous GAAP will be broadened (perhaps related party dis­clo­sures).
Dis­clo­sure of selected financial data for periods before the first IFRS statement of financial position
If a first-time adopter wants to disclose selected financial in­for­ma­tion for periods before the date of the opening IFRS statement of financial position, it is not required to conform that in­for­ma­tion to IFRS. Con­form­ing that earlier selected financial in­for­ma­tion to IFRSs is optional.[IFRS 1.22]
If the entity elects to present the earlier selected financial in­for­ma­tion based on its previous GAAP rather than IFRS, it must promi­nently label that earlier in­for­ma­tion as not complying with IFRS and, further, it must disclose the nature of the main ad­just­ments that would make that in­for­ma­tion comply with IFRS. This latter dis­clo­sure is narrative and not nec­es­sar­ily quan­ti­fied.[IFRS 1.22]
Dis­clo­sures in the financial state­ments of a first-time adopter
IFRS 1 requires dis­clo­sures that explain how the tran­si­tion from previous GAAP to IFRS affected the entity's reported financial position, financial per­for­mance and cash flows. [IFRS 1.23] This includes:
rec­on­cil­i­a­tions of equity reported under previous GAAP to equity under IFRS both (a) at the date of tran­si­tion to IFRSs and (b) the end of the last annual period reported under the previous GAAP. [IFRS 1.24(a)] (For an entity adopting IFRSs for the first time in its 31 December 2014 financial state­ments, the rec­on­cil­i­a­tions would be as of 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013.)
rec­on­cil­i­a­tions of total com­pre­hen­sive income for the last annual period reported under the previous GAAP to total com­pre­hen­sive income under IFRSs for the same period [IFRS 1.24(b)]
ex­pla­na­tion of material ad­just­ments that were made, in adopting IFRSs for the first time, to the statement of financial position, statement of com­pre­hen­sive income and statement of cash flows (the latter if presented under previous GAAP) [IFRS 1.25]
if errors in previous GAAP financial state­ments were dis­cov­ered in the course of tran­si­tion to IFRSs, those must be sep­a­rately disclosed [IFRS 1.26]
if the entity recog­nised or reversed any im­pair­ment losses in preparing its opening IFRS statement of financial position, these must be disclosed [IFRS 1.24(c)]
ap­pro­pri­ate ex­pla­na­tions if the entity has elected to apply any of the specific recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment ex­emp­tions permitted under IFRS 1 – for instance, if it used fair values as deemed cost
Dis­clo­sures in interim financial reports
If an entity is going to adopt IFRSs for the first time in its annual financial state­ments for the year ended 31 December 2014, certain dis­clo­sure are required in its interim financial state­ments prior to the 31 December 2014 state­ments, but only if those interim financial state­ments purport to comply with IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting. Ex­plana­tory in­for­ma­tion and a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion are required in the interim report that im­me­di­ately precedes the first set of IFRS annual financial state­ments. The in­for­ma­tion includes rec­on­cil­i­a­tions between IFRS and previous GAAP. [IFRS 1.32]
Ex­cep­tions to the ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion of other IFRSs
Prior to 1 January 2010, there were three ex­cep­tions to the general principle of ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion. On 23 July 2009, IFRS 1 was amended, effective 1 January 2010, to add two ad­di­tional ex­cep­tions with the goal of further sim­pli­fy­ing the tran­si­tion to IFRSs for first-time adopters. The five ex­cep­tions are: [IFRS 1.Appendix B]
IAS 39 – Dere­cog­ni­tion of financial in­stru­ments
A first-time adopter shall apply the dere­cog­ni­tion re­quire­ments in IAS 39 prospec­tively for trans­ac­tions occurring on or after 1 January 2004. However, the entity may apply the dere­cog­ni­tion re­quire­ments ret­ro­spec­tively provided that the needed in­for­ma­tion was obtained at the time of initially accounting for those trans­ac­tions. [IFRS 1.B2-3]
IAS 39 – Hedge accounting
The general rule is that the entity shall not reflect in its opening IFRS statement of financial position a hedging re­la­tion­ship of a type that does not qualify for hedge accounting in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39. However, if an entity des­ig­nated a net position as a hedged item in ac­cor­dance with previous GAAP, it may designate an in­di­vid­ual item within that net position as a hedged item in ac­cor­dance with IFRS, provided that it does so no later than the date of tran­si­tion to IFRSs. [IFRS 1.B5]
Note: Modified re­quire­ments apply when an entity applies IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (2013).
IAS 27 – Non-con­trol­ling interest
IFRS 1.B7 lists specific re­quire­ments of IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments that shall be applied prospec­tively.
Full-cost oil and gas assets
Entities using the full cost method may elect exemption from ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRSs for oil and gas assets. Entities electing this exemption will use the carrying amount under its old GAAP as the deemed cost of its oil and gas assets at the date of first-time adoption of IFRSs.
De­ter­min­ing whether an arrange­ment contains a lease
If a first-time adopter with a leasing contract made the same type of de­ter­mi­na­tion of whether an arrange­ment contained a lease in ac­cor­dance with previous GAAP as that required by IFRIC 4 De­ter­min­ing whether an Arrange­ment Contains a Lease, but at a date other than that required by IFRIC 4, the amend­ments exempt the entity from having to apply IFRIC 4 when it adopts IFRSs.
Optional ex­emp­tions from the basic mea­sure­ment principle in IFRS 1
There are some further optional ex­emp­tions to the general re­state­ment and mea­sure­ment prin­ci­ples set out above. The following ex­cep­tions are in­di­vid­u­ally optional. They relate to:
business com­bi­na­tions [IFRS 1.Appendix C]
and a number of others [IFRS 1.Appendix D]:
share-based payment trans­ac­tions
insurance contracts
fair value, previous carrying amount, or reval­u­a­tion as deemed cost
leases
cu­mu­la­tive trans­la­tion dif­fer­ences
in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly con­trolled entities, as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures
assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ated and joint ventures
compound financial in­stru­ments
des­ig­na­tion of pre­vi­ously recog­nised financial in­stru­ments
fair value mea­sure­ment of financial assets or financial li­a­bil­i­ties at initial recog­ni­tion
de­com­mis­sion­ing li­a­bil­i­ties included in the cost of property, plant and equipment
financial assets or in­tan­gi­ble assets accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments
borrowing costs
transfers of assets from customers
ex­tin­guish­ing financial li­a­bil­i­ties with equity in­stru­ments
severe hy­per­in­fla­tion
joint arrange­ments
stripping costs in the pro­duc­tion phase of a surface mine
Some, but not all, of them are described below.
Business com­bi­na­tions that occurred before opening statement of financial position date
IFRS 1 includes Appendix C ex­plain­ing how a first-time adopter should account for business com­bi­na­tions that occurred prior to tran­si­tion to IFRS.
An entity may keep the original previous GAAP accounting, that is, not restate:
previous mergers or goodwill writ­ten-off from reserves
the carrying amounts of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties recog­nised at the date of ac­qui­si­tion or merger, or
how goodwill was initially de­ter­mined (do not adjust the purchase price al­lo­ca­tion on ac­qui­si­tion)
However, should it wish to do so, an entity can elect to restate all business com­bi­na­tions starting from a date it selects prior to the opening statement of financial position date.
In all cases, the entity must make an initial IAS 36 im­pair­ment test of any remaining goodwill in the opening IFRS statement of financial position, after re­clas­si­fy­ing, as ap­pro­pri­ate, previous GAAP in­tan­gi­bles to goodwill.
The exemption for business com­bi­na­tions also applies to ac­qui­si­tions of in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates, interests in joint ventures and interests in a joint operation when the operation con­sti­tutes a business.
Deemed cost
Assets carried at cost (e.g. property, plant and equipment) may be measured at their fair value at the date of tran­si­tion to IFRSs. Fair value becomes the 'deemed cost' going forward under the IFRS cost model. Deemed cost is an amount used as a surrogate for cost or de­pre­ci­ated cost at a given date. [IFRS 1.D6]
If, before the date of its first IFRS statement of financial position, the entity had revalued any of these assets under its previous GAAP either to fair value or to a price-in­dex-ad­justed cost, that previous GAAP revalued amount at the date of the reval­u­a­tion can become the deemed cost of the asset under IFRS. [IFRS 1.D6]
If, before the date of its first IFRS statement of financial position, the entity had made a one-time reval­u­a­tion of assets or li­a­bil­i­ties to fair value because of a pri­vati­sa­tion or initial public offering, and the revalued amount became deemed cost under the previous GAAP, that amount would continue to be deemed cost after the initial adoption of IFRS. [IFRS 1.D8]
This option applies to in­tan­gi­ble assets only if an active market exists. [IFRS 1.D7]
If the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment or in­tan­gi­ble assets that are used in rate-reg­u­lated ac­tiv­i­ties includes amounts under previous GAAP that do not qualify for cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion in ac­cor­dance with IFRSs, a first-time adopter may elect to use the previous GAAP carrying amount of such items as deemed cost on the initial adoption of IFRSs. [IFRS 1.D8B]
Eligible entities subject to rate-reg­u­la­tion may also op­tion­ally apply IFRS 14 Reg­u­la­tory Deferral Accounts on tran­si­tion to IFRSs, and in sub­se­quent financial state­ments.
IAS 19 – Employee benefits: actuarial gains and losses
An entity may elect to recognise all cu­mu­la­tive actuarial gains and losses for all defined benefit plans at the opening IFRS statement of financial position date (that is, reset any corridor recog­nised under previous GAAP to zero), even if it elects to use the IAS 19 corridor approach for actuarial gains and losses that arise after first-time adoption of IFRS. If a first-time adopter uses this exemption, it shall apply it to all plans. [IFRS 1.D10]
Note: This exemption is not available where IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011) is applied. IAS 19 (2011) is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 21 – Ac­cu­mu­lated trans­la­tion reserves
An entity may elect to recognise all trans­la­tion ad­just­ments arising on the trans­la­tion of the financial state­ments of foreign entities in ac­cu­mu­lated profits or losses at the opening IFRS statement of financial position date (that is, reset the trans­la­tion reserve included in equity under previous GAAP to zero). If the entity elects this exemption, the gain or loss on sub­se­quent disposal of the foreign entity will be adjusted only by those ac­cu­mu­lated trans­la­tion ad­just­ments arising after the opening IFRS statement of financial position date. [IFRS 1.D13]
IAS 27 – In­vest­ments in separate financial state­ments
In May 2008, the IASB amended the standard to change the way the cost of an in­vest­ment in the separate financial state­ments is measured on first-time adoption of IFRSs. The amend­ments to IFRS 1:
allow first-time adopters to use a 'deemed cost' of either fair value or the carrying amount under previous accounting practice to measure the initial cost of in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly con­trolled entities and as­so­ci­ates in the separate financial state­ments
remove the de­f­i­n­i­tion of the cost method from IAS 27 and add a re­quire­ment to present dividends as income in the separate financial state­ments of the investor
require that, when a new parent is formed in a re­or­gan­i­sa­tion, the new parent must measure the cost of its in­vest­ment in the previous parent at the carrying amount of its share of the equity items of the previous parent at the date of the re­or­gan­i­sa­tion
Assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures: different IFRS adoption dates of investor and investee
If a sub­sidiary becomes a first-time adopter later than its parent, IFRS 1 permits a choice between two mea­sure­ment bases in the sub­sidiary's separate financial state­ments. In this case, a sub­sidiary should measure its assets and li­a­bil­i­ties as either: [IFRS 1.D16]
the carrying amount that would be included in the parent's con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, based on the parent's date of tran­si­tion to IFRSs, if no ad­just­ments were made for con­sol­i­da­tion pro­ce­dures and for the effects of the business com­bi­na­tion in which the parent acquired the sub­sidiary or
the carrying amounts required by IFRS 1 based on the sub­sidiary's date of tran­si­tion to IFRSs
A similar election is available to an associate or joint venture that becomes a first-time adopter later than an entity that has sig­nif­i­cant influence or joint control over it. [IFRS 1.D16]
If a parent becomes a first-time adopter later than its sub­sidiary, the parent should in its con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, measure the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of the sub­sidiary at the same carrying amount as in the separate financial state­ments of the sub­sidiary, after adjusting for con­sol­i­da­tion ad­just­ments and for the effects of the business com­bi­na­tion in which the parent acquired the sub­sidiary. The same approach applies in the case of as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures. [IFRS 1.D17]
IFRS 2 — Share-based Payment
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment requires an entity to recognise share-based payment trans­ac­tions (such as granted shares, share options, or share ap­pre­ci­a­tion rights) in its financial state­ments, including trans­ac­tions with employees or other parties to be settled in cash, other assets, or equity in­stru­ments of the entity. Specific re­quire­ments are included for eq­uity-set­tled and cash-set­tled share-based payment trans­ac­tions, as well as those where the entity or supplier has a choice of cash or equity in­stru­ments.
IFRS 2 was orig­i­nally issued in February 2004 and first applied to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IFRS 2
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
July 2000 G4+1 Dis­cus­sion Paper Accounting for Share-Based Payments published Comment deadline 31 October 2000
July 2001 Project added to IASB agenda History of the project
20 September 2001 IASB invites comments on G4+1 Dis­cus­sion Paper Accounting for Share-Based Payments Comment deadline 15 December 2001
7 November 2002 Exposure Draft ED 2 Share-Based Payment published Comment deadline 7 March 2003
19 February 2004 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
2 February 2006 Exposure Draft Vesting Con­di­tions and Can­cel­la­tions published Comment deadline 2 June 2006
17 January 2008 Amended by Vesting Con­di­tions and Can­cel­la­tions (Amend­ments to IFRS 2) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
16 April 2009 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (scope of IFRS 2 and revised IFRS 3) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
18 June 2009 Amended by Group Cash-set­tled Share-based Payment Trans­ac­tions Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (de­f­i­n­i­tion of vesting condition) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
20 June 2016 Amended by Clas­si­fi­ca­tion and Mea­sure­ment of Share-based Payment Trans­ac­tions (Amend­ments to IFRS 2) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion
none
Summary of IFRS 2
In June 2007, the Deloitte IFRS Global Office published an updated version of our IAS Plus Guide to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 2007 (PDF 748k, 128 pages). The guide not only explains the detailed pro­vi­sions of IFRS 2 but also deals with its ap­pli­ca­tion in many practical sit­u­a­tions. Because of the com­plex­ity and variety of share-based payment awards in practice, it is not always possible to be de­fin­i­tive as to what is the 'right' answer. However, in this guide Deloitte shares with you our approach to finding solutions that we believe are in ac­cor­dance with the objective of the Standard.
Special edition of our IAS Plus newslet­ter
You will find a four-page summary of IFRS 2 in a special edition of our IAS Plus newslet­ter (PDF 49k).
De­f­i­n­i­tion of share-based payment
A share-based payment is a trans­ac­tion in which the entity receives goods or services either as con­sid­er­a­tion for its equity in­stru­ments or by incurring li­a­bil­i­ties for amounts based on the price of the entity's shares or other equity in­stru­ments of the entity. The accounting re­quire­ments for the share-based payment depend on how the trans­ac­tion will be settled, that is, by the issuance of (a) equity, (b) cash, or (c) equity or cash.
Scope
The concept of share-based payments is broader than employee share options. IFRS 2 en­com­passes the issuance of shares, or rights to shares, in return for services and goods. Examples of items included in the scope of IFRS 2 are share ap­pre­ci­a­tion rights, employee share purchase plans, employee share ownership plans, share option plans and plans where the issuance of shares (or rights to shares) may depend on market or non-mar­ket related con­di­tions.
IFRS 2 applies to all entities. There is no exemption for private or smaller entities. Fur­ther­more, sub­sidiaries using their parent's or fellow sub­sidiary's equity as con­sid­er­a­tion for goods or services are within the scope of the Standard.
There are two ex­emp­tions to the general scope principle:
First, the issuance of shares in a business com­bi­na­tion should be accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions. However, care should be taken to dis­tin­guish share-based payments related to the ac­qui­si­tion from those related to con­tin­u­ing employee services
Second, IFRS 2 does not address share-based payments within the scope of para­graphs 8-10 of IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion, or para­graphs 5-7 of IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment. Therefore, IAS 32 and IAS 39 should be applied for com­mod­ity-based de­riv­a­tive contracts that may be settled in shares or rights to shares.
IFRS 2 does not apply to share-based payment trans­ac­tions other than for the ac­qui­si­tion of goods and services. Share dividends, the purchase of treasury shares, and the issuance of ad­di­tional shares are therefore outside its scope.
Recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment
The issuance of shares or rights to shares requires an increase in a component of equity. IFRS 2 requires the off­set­ting debit entry to be expensed when the payment for goods or services does not represent an asset. The expense should be recog­nised as the goods or services are consumed. For example, the issuance of shares or rights to shares to purchase inventory would be presented as an increase in inventory and would be expensed only once the inventory is sold or impaired.
The issuance of fully vested shares, or rights to shares, is presumed to relate to past service, requiring the full amount of the grant-date fair value to be expensed im­me­di­ately. The issuance of shares to employees with, say, a three-year vesting period is con­sid­ered to relate to services over the vesting period. Therefore, the fair value of the share-based payment, de­ter­mined at the grant date, should be expensed over the vesting period.
As a general principle, the total expense related to eq­uity-set­tled share-based payments will equal the multiple of the total in­stru­ments that vest and the grant-date fair value of those in­stru­ments. In short, there is truing up to reflect what happens during the vesting period. However, if the eq­uity-set­tled share-based payment has a market related per­for­mance condition, the expense would still be recog­nised if all other vesting con­di­tions are met. The following example provides an il­lus­tra­tion of a typical eq­uity-set­tled share-based payment.
Il­lus­tra­tion – Recog­ni­tion of employee share option grant
Company grants a total of 100 share options to 10 members of its executive man­age­ment team (10 options each) on 1 January 20X5. These options vest at the end of a three-year period. The company has de­ter­mined that each option has a fair value at the date of grant equal to 15. The company expects that all 100 options will vest and therefore records the following entry at 30 June 20X5 - the end of its first six-month interim reporting period.
Dr. Share option expense 250
Cr. Equity 250
[(100 × 15) ÷ 6 periods] = 250 per period
If all 100 shares vest, the above entry would be made at the end of each 6-month reporting period. However, if one member of the executive man­age­ment team leaves during the second half of 20X6, therefore for­feit­ing the entire amount of 10 options, the following entry at 31 December 20X6 would be made:
Dr. Share option expense 150
Cr. Equity 150
[(90 × 15) ÷ 6 periods = 225 per period. [225 × 4] – [250+250+250] = 150
Mea­sure­ment guidance
Depending on the type of share-based payment, fair value may be de­ter­mined by the value of the shares or rights to shares given up, or by the value of the goods or services received:
General fair value mea­sure­ment principle. In principle, trans­ac­tions in which goods or services are received as con­sid­er­a­tion for equity in­stru­ments of the entity should be measured at the fair value of the goods or services received. Only if the fair value of the goods or services cannot be measured reliably would the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted be used.
Measuring employee share options. For trans­ac­tions with employees and others providing similar services, the entity is required to measure the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted, because it is typically not possible to estimate reliably the fair value of employee services received.
When to measure fair value - options. For trans­ac­tions measured at the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted (such as trans­ac­tions with employees), fair value should be estimated at grant date.
When to measure fair value - goods and services. For trans­ac­tions measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, fair value should be estimated at the date of receipt of those goods or services.
Mea­sure­ment guidance. For goods or services measured by reference to the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted, IFRS 2 specifies that, in general, vesting con­di­tions are not taken into account when es­ti­mat­ing the fair value of the shares or options at the relevant mea­sure­ment date (as specified above). Instead, vesting con­di­tions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity in­stru­ments included in the mea­sure­ment of the trans­ac­tion amount so that, ul­ti­mately, the amount recog­nised for goods or services received as con­sid­er­a­tion for the equity in­stru­ments granted is based on the number of equity in­stru­ments that even­tu­ally vest.
More mea­sure­ment guidance. IFRS 2 requires the fair value of equity in­stru­ments granted to be based on market prices, if available, and to take into account the terms and con­di­tions upon which those equity in­stru­ments were granted. In the absence of market prices, fair value is estimated using a valuation technique to estimate what the price of those equity in­stru­ments would have been on the mea­sure­ment date in an arm's length trans­ac­tion between knowl­edge­able, willing parties. The standard does not specify which par­tic­u­lar model should be used.
If fair value cannot be reliably measured. IFRS 2 requires the share-based payment trans­ac­tion to be measured at fair value for both listed and unlisted entities. IFRS 2 permits the use of intrinsic value (that is, fair value of the shares less exercise price) in those "rare cases" in which the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments cannot be reliably measured. However this is not simply measured at the date of grant. An entity would have to remeasure intrinsic value at each reporting date until final set­tle­ment.
Per­for­mance con­di­tions. IFRS 2 makes a dis­tinc­tion between the handling of market based per­for­mance con­di­tions from non-mar­ket per­for­mance con­di­tions. Market con­di­tions are those related to the market price of an entity's equity, such as achieving a specified share price or a specified target based on a com­par­i­son of the entity's share price with an index of share prices of other entities. Market based per­for­mance con­di­tions are included in the grant-date fair value mea­sure­ment (similarly, non-vest­ing con­di­tions are taken into account in the mea­sure­ment). However, the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments is not adjusted to take into con­sid­er­a­tion non-mar­ket based per­for­mance features - these are instead taken into account by adjusting the number of equity in­stru­ments included in the mea­sure­ment of the share-based payment trans­ac­tion, and are adjusted each period until such time as the equity in­stru­ments vest.
Note: Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle amends the de­f­i­n­i­tions of  'vesting condition' and 'market condition' and adds de­f­i­n­i­tions for 'per­for­mance condition' and 'service condition' (which were pre­vi­ously part of the de­f­i­n­i­tion of 'vesting condition').  The amend­ments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
Mod­i­fi­ca­tions, can­cel­la­tions, and set­tle­ments
The de­ter­mi­na­tion of whether a change in terms and con­di­tions has an effect on the amount recog­nised depends on whether the fair value of the new in­stru­ments is greater than the fair value of the original in­stru­ments (both de­ter­mined at the mod­i­fi­ca­tion date).
Mod­i­fi­ca­tion of the terms on which equity in­stru­ments were granted may have an effect on the expense that will be recorded. IFRS 2 clarifies that the guidance on mod­i­fi­ca­tions also applies to in­stru­ments modified after their vesting date. If the fair value of the new in­stru­ments is more than the fair value of the old in­stru­ments (e.g. by reduction of the exercise price or issuance of ad­di­tional in­stru­ments), the in­cre­men­tal amount is recog­nised over the remaining vesting period in a manner similar to the original amount. If the mod­i­fi­ca­tion occurs after the vesting period, the in­cre­men­tal amount is recog­nised im­me­di­ately. If the fair value of the new in­stru­ments is less than the fair value of the old in­stru­ments, the original fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted should be expensed as if the mod­i­fi­ca­tion never occurred.
The can­cel­la­tion or set­tle­ment of equity in­stru­ments is accounted for as an ac­cel­er­a­tion of the vesting period and therefore any amount un­recog­nised that would otherwise have been charged should be recog­nised im­me­di­ately. Any payments made with the can­cel­la­tion or set­tle­ment (up to the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments) should be accounted for as the re­pur­chase of an equity interest. Any payment in excess of the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted is recog­nised as an expense
New equity in­stru­ments granted may be iden­ti­fied as a re­place­ment of cancelled equity in­stru­ments. In those cases, the re­place­ment equity in­stru­ments are accounted for as a mod­i­fi­ca­tion. The fair value of the re­place­ment equity in­stru­ments is de­ter­mined at grant date, while the fair value of the cancelled in­stru­ments is de­ter­mined at the date of can­cel­la­tion, less any cash payments on can­cel­la­tion that is accounted for as a deduction from equity.
Dis­clo­sure
Required dis­clo­sures include:
the nature and extent of share-based payment arrange­ments that existed during the period
how the fair value of the goods or services received, or the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted, during the period was de­ter­mined
the effect of share-based payment trans­ac­tions on the entity's profit or loss for the period and on its financial position.
Effective date
IFRS 2 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is en­cour­aged.
Tran­si­tion
All eq­uity-set­tled share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002, that are not yet vested at the effective date of IFRS 2 shall be accounted for using the pro­vi­sions of IFRS 2. Entities are allowed and en­cour­aged, but not required, to apply this IFRS to other grants of equity in­stru­ments if (and only if) the entity has pre­vi­ously disclosed publicly the fair value of those equity in­stru­ments de­ter­mined in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 2.
The com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion presented in ac­cor­dance with IAS 1 shall be restated for all grants of equity in­stru­ments to which the re­quire­ments of IFRS 2 are applied. The ad­just­ment to reflect this change is presented in the opening balance of retained earnings for the earliest period presented.
IFRS 2 amends paragraph 13 of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards to add an exemption for share-based payment trans­ac­tions. Similar to entities already applying IFRS, first-time adopters will have to apply IFRS 2 for share-based payment trans­ac­tions on or after 7 November 2002. Ad­di­tion­ally, a first-time adopter is not required to apply IFRS 2 to share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002 that vested before the later of (a) the date of tran­si­tion to IFRS and (b) 1 January 2005. A first-time adopter may elect to apply IFRS 2 earlier only if it has publicly disclosed the fair value of the share-based payments de­ter­mined at the mea­sure­ment date in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 2.
Dif­fer­ences with FASB Statement 123 Revised 2004
In December 2004, the US FASB published FASB Statement 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment. Statement 123(R) requires that the com­pen­sa­tion cost relating to share-based payment trans­ac­tions be recog­nised in financial state­ments. Click for FASB Press Release (PDF 17k). Deloitte (USA) has published a special issue of its Heads Up newslet­ter sum­maris­ing the key concepts of FASB Statement No. 123(R). Click to download the Heads Up Newslet­ter (PDF 292k). While Statement 123(R) is largely con­sis­tent with IFRS 2, some dif­fer­ences remain, as described in a Q&A document FASB issued along with the new Statement:
Q22. Is the Statement con­ver­gent with International Financial Reporting Standards?
The Statement is largely con­ver­gent with International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 2, Share-based Payment. The Statement and IFRS 2 have the potential to differ in only a few areas. The more sig­nif­i­cant areas are briefly described below.
IFRS 2 requires the use of the modified grant-date method for share-based payment arrange­ments with non­em­ploy­ees. In contrast, Issue 96-18 requires that grants of share options and other equity in­stru­ments to non­em­ploy­ees be measured at the earlier of (1) the date at which a com­mit­ment for per­for­mance by the coun­ter­party to earn the equity in­stru­ments is reached or (2) the date at which the coun­ter­party's per­for­mance is complete.
IFRS 2 contains more stringent criteria for de­ter­min­ing whether an employee share purchase plan is com­pen­satory or not. As a result, some employee share purchase plans for which IFRS 2 requires recog­ni­tion of com­pen­sa­tion cost will not be con­sid­ered to give rise to com­pen­sa­tion cost under the Statement.
IFRS 2 applies the same mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments to employee share options re­gard­less of whether the issuer is a public or a nonpublic entity. The Statement requires that a nonpublic entity account for its options and similar equity in­stru­ments based on their fair value unless it is not prac­ti­ca­ble to estimate the expected volatil­ity of the entity's share price. In that situation, the entity is required to measure its equity share options and similar in­stru­ments at a value using the his­tor­i­cal volatil­ity of an ap­pro­pri­ate industry sector index.
In tax ju­ris­dic­tions such as the United States, where the time value of share options generally is not de­ductible for tax purposes, IFRS 2 requires that no deferred tax asset be rec­og­nized for the com­pen­sa­tion cost related to the time value component of the fair value of an award. A deferred tax asset is rec­og­nized only if and when the share options have intrinsic value that could be de­ductible for tax purposes. Therefore, an entity that grants an at-the-money share option to an employee in exchange for services will not recognize tax effects until that award is in-the-money. In contrast, the Statement requires recog­ni­tion of a deferred tax asset based on the grant-date fair value of the award. The effects of sub­se­quent decreases in the share price (or lack of an increase) are not reflected in accounting for the deferred tax asset until the related com­pen­sa­tion cost is rec­og­nized for tax purposes. The effects of sub­se­quent increases that generate excess tax benefits are rec­og­nized when they affect taxes payable.
The Statement requires a portfolio approach in de­ter­min­ing excess tax benefits of equity awards in paid-in capital available to offset write-offs of deferred tax assets, whereas IFRS 2 requires an in­di­vid­ual in­stru­ment approach. Thus, some write-offs of deferred tax assets that will be rec­og­nized in paid-in capital under the Statement will be rec­og­nized in de­ter­min­ing net income under IFRS 2.
Dif­fer­ences between the Statement and IFRS 2 may be further reduced in the future when the IASB and FASB consider whether to undertake ad­di­tional work to further converge their re­spec­tive accounting standards on share-based payment.
March 2005: SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 107
On 29 March 2005, the staff of the US Se­cu­ri­ties and Exchange Com­mis­sion issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 107 dealing with val­u­a­tions and other accounting issues for share-based payment arrange­ments by public companies under FASB Statement 123R Share-Based Payment. For public companies, val­u­a­tions under Statement 123R are similar to those under IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. SAB 107 provides guidance related to share-based payment trans­ac­tions with non­em­ploy­ees, the tran­si­tion from nonpublic to public entity status, valuation methods (including as­sump­tions such as expected volatil­ity and expected term), the accounting for certain re­deemable financial in­stru­ments issued under share-based payment arrange­ments, the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of com­pen­sa­tion expense, non-GAAP financial measures, first-time adoption of Statement 123R in an interim period, cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of com­pen­sa­tion cost related to share-based payment arrange­ments, accounting for the income tax effects of share-based payment arrange­ments on adoption of Statement 123R, the mod­i­fi­ca­tion of employee share options prior to adoption of Statement 123R, and dis­clo­sures in Man­age­ment's Dis­cus­sion and Analysis (MD&A) sub­se­quent to adoption of Statement 123R. One of the in­ter­pre­ta­tions in SAB 107 is whether there are dif­fer­ences between Statement 123R and IFRS 2 that would result in a rec­on­cil­ing item:
Question: Does the staff believe there are dif­fer­ences in the mea­sure­ment pro­vi­sions for share-based payment arrange­ments with employees under International Accounting Standards Board International Financial Reporting Standard 2, Share-based Payment ('IFRS 2') and Statement 123R that would result in a rec­on­cil­ing item under Item 17 or 18 of Form 20-F?
In­ter­pre­tive Response: The staff believes that ap­pli­ca­tion of the guidance provided by IFRS 2 regarding the mea­sure­ment of employee share options would generally result in a fair value mea­sure­ment that is con­sis­tent with the fair value objective stated in Statement 123R. Ac­cord­ingly, the staff believes that ap­pli­ca­tion of Statement 123R's mea­sure­ment guidance would not generally result in a rec­on­cil­ing item required to be reported under Item 17 or 18 of Form 20-F for a foreign private issuer that has complied with the pro­vi­sions of IFRS 2 for share-based payment trans­ac­tions with employees. However, the staff reminds foreign private issuers that there are certain dif­fer­ences between the guidance in IFRS 2 and Statement 123R that may result in rec­on­cil­ing items. [Footnotes omitted]
Click to download:
SEC Press Release (PDF 30k)
Staff Accounting Bulletin 107 (PDF 362k)
March 2005: Bear, Stearns Study on Impact of Expensing Stock Options in the United States
If US public companies had been required to expense employee stock options in 2004, as will be required under FASB Statement 123R Share-Based Payment starting in third-quar­ter 2005:
the reported 2004 post-tax net income from con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions of the S&P 500 companies would have been reduced by 5%, and
2004 NASDAQ 100 post-tax net income from con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions would have been reduced by 22%.
Those are key findings of a study conducted by the Equity Research group at Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. The purpose of the study is to help investors gauge the impact that expensing employee stock options will have on the 2005 earnings of US public companies. The Bear, Stearns analysis was based on the 2004 stock option dis­clo­sures in the most recently filed 10Ks of companies that were S&P 500 and NASDAQ 100 con­stituents as of 31 December 2004. Exhibits to the study present the results by company, by sector, and by industry. Visitors to IAS Plus are likely to find the study of interest because the re­quire­ments of FAS 123R for public companies are very similar to those of IFRS 2. We are grateful to Bear, Stearns for giving us per­mis­sion to post the study on IAS Plus. The report remains copyright Bear, Stears & Co. Inc., all rights reserved. Click to download 2004 Earnings Impact of Stock Options on the S&P 500 & NASDAQ 100 Earnings (PDF 486k).
November 2005: Standard & Poor's Study on Impact of Expensing Stock Options
In November 2005 Standard & Poor's published a report of the impact of expensing stock options on the S&P 500 companies. FAS 123(R) requires expensing of stock options (mandatory for most SEC reg­is­trants in 2006). IFRS 2 is nearly identical to FAS 123(R). S&P found:
Option expense will reduce S&P 500 earnings by 4.2%. In­for­ma­tion Tech­nol­ogy is affected the most, reducing earnings by 18%.... P/E ratios for all sectors will be increased, but will remain below his­tor­i­cal averages.
The impact of option expensing on the Standard & Poor's 500 will be no­tice­able, but in an en­vi­ron­ment of record earnings, high margins and his­tor­i­cally low operating price-to-earn­ings ratios, the index is in its best position in decades to absorb the ad­di­tional expense.
S&P takes issue with those companies that try to emphasise earnings before deducting stock option expense and with those analysts who ignore option expensing. The report em­pha­sises that:
Standard & Poor's will include and report option expense in all of its earnings values, across all of its business lines. This includes Operating, As Reported and Core, and applies to its an­a­lyt­i­cal work in the S&P Domestic Indices, Stock Reports, as well as its forward estimates. It includes all of its elec­tronic products.... The in­vest­ment community benefits when it has clear and con­sis­tent in­for­ma­tion and analyses. A con­sis­tent earnings method­ol­ogy that builds on accepted accounting standards and pro­ce­dures is a vital component of investing. By sup­port­ing this de­f­i­n­i­tion, Standard & Poor's is con­tribut­ing to a more reliable in­vest­ment en­vi­ron­ment.
The current debate as to the pre­sen­ta­tion by companies of earnings that exclude option expense, generally being referred to as non-GAAP earnings, speaks to the heart of corporate gov­er­nance. Ad­di­tion­ally, many equity analysts are being en­cour­aged to base their estimates on non-GAAP earnings. While we do not expect a repeat of the EBBS (Earnings Before Bad Stuff) pro-forma earnings of 2001, the ability to compare issues and sectors depends on an accepted set of accounting rules observed by all. In order to make informed in­vest­ment decisions, the investing community requires data that conform to accepted accounting pro­ce­dures. Of even more concern is the impact that such al­ter­na­tive pre­sen­ta­tion and cal­cu­la­tions could have on the reduced level of faith and trust investors put into company reporting. The corporate gov­er­nance events of the last two-years have eroded the trust of many investors, trust that will take years to earn back. In an era of instant access and carefully scripted investor releases, trust is now a major issue.
January 2008: Amendment of IFRS 2 to clarify vesting con­di­tions and can­cel­la­tions
On 17 January 2008, the IASB published final amend­ments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to clarify the terms 'vesting con­di­tions' and 'can­cel­la­tions' as follows:
Vesting con­di­tions are service con­di­tions and per­for­mance con­di­tions only. Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting con­di­tions. Under IFRS 2, features of a share-based payment that are not vesting con­di­tions should be included in the grant date fair value of the share-based payment. The fair value also includes mar­ket-re­lated vesting con­di­tions.
All can­cel­la­tions, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment. Under IFRS 2, a can­cel­la­tion of equity in­stru­ments is accounted for as an ac­cel­er­a­tion of the vesting period. Therefore any amount un­recog­nised that would otherwise have been charged is recog­nised im­me­di­ately. Any payments made with the can­cel­la­tion (up to the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments) is accounted for as the re­pur­chase of an equity interest. Any payment in excess of the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted is recog­nised as an expense.
The Board had proposed the amendment in an exposure draft on 2 February 2006. The amendment is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, with earlier ap­pli­ca­tion permitted.
Click for Press Release (PDF 47k).
Deloitte has published a Special Edition of our IAS Plus Newslet­ter ex­plain­ing the amend­ments to IFRS 2 for vesting con­di­tions and can­cel­la­tions (PDF 126k).
June 2009: IASB amends IFRS 2 for group cash-set­tled share-based payment trans­ac­tions, withdraws IFRICs 8 and 11
On 18 June 2009, the IASB issued amend­ments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment that clarify the accounting for group cash-set­tled share-based payment trans­ac­tions. The amend­ments clarify how an in­di­vid­ual sub­sidiary in a group should account for some share-based payment arrange­ments in its own financial state­ments. In these arrange­ments, the sub­sidiary receives goods or services from employees or suppliers but its parent or another entity in the group must pay those suppliers. The amend­ments make clear that:
An entity that receives goods or services in a share-based payment arrange­ment must account for those goods or services no matter which entity in the group settles the trans­ac­tion, and no matter whether the trans­ac­tion is settled in shares or cash.
In IFRS 2 a 'group' has the same meaning as in IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments, that is, it includes only a parent and its sub­sidiaries.
The amend­ments to IFRS 2 also in­cor­po­rate guidance pre­vi­ously included in IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2–Group and Treasury Share Trans­ac­tions. As a result, the IASB has withdrawn IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11. The amend­ments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 and must be applied ret­ro­spec­tively. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted. Click for IASB press release (PDF 103k).
June 2016: IASB clarifies the clas­si­fi­ca­tion and mea­sure­ment of share-based payment trans­ac­tions
On 20 June 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) published final amend­ments to IFRS 2 that clarify the clas­si­fi­ca­tion and mea­sure­ment of share-based payment trans­ac­tions:
Accounting for cash-set­tled share-based payment trans­ac­tions that include a per­for­mance condition
Until now, IFRS 2 contained no guidance on how vesting con­di­tions affect the fair value of li­a­bil­i­ties for cash-set­tled share-based payments. IASB has now added guidance that in­tro­duces accounting re­quire­ments for cash-set­tled share-based payments that follows the same approach as used for eq­uity-set­tled share-based payments.
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of share-based payment trans­ac­tions with net set­tle­ment features
IASB has in­tro­duced an exception into IFRS 2 so that a share-based payment where the entity settles the share-based payment arrange­ment net is clas­si­fied as eq­uity-set­tled in its entirety provided the share-based payment would have been clas­si­fied as eq­uity-set­tled had it not included the net set­tle­ment feature.
Accounting for mod­i­fi­ca­tions of share-based payment trans­ac­tions from cash-set­tled to eq­uity-set­tled
Until now, IFRS 2 did not specif­i­cally address sit­u­a­tions where a cash-set­tled share-based payment changes to an eq­uity-set­tled share-based payment because of mod­i­fi­ca­tions of the terms and con­di­tions. The IASB has intoduced the following clar­i­fi­ca­tions:
On such mod­i­fi­ca­tions, the original liability recog­nised in respect of the cash-set­tled share-based payment is dere­cog­nised and the eq­uity-set­tled share-based payment is recog­nised at the mod­i­fi­ca­tion date fair value to the extent services have been rendered up to the mod­i­fi­ca­tion date.
Any dif­fer­ence between the carrying amount of the liability as at the mod­i­fi­ca­tion date and the amount recog­nised in equity at the same date would be recog­nised in profit and loss im­me­di­ately.
IFRS 3 — Business Combinations
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions outlines the accounting when an acquirer obtains control of a business (e.g. an ac­qui­si­tion or merger). Such business com­bi­na­tions are accounted for using the 'ac­qui­si­tion method', which generally requires assets acquired and li­a­bil­i­ties assumed to be measured at their fair values at the ac­qui­si­tion date.
A revised version of IFRS 3 was issued in January 2008 and applies to business com­bi­na­tions occurring in an entity's first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
History of IFRS 3
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
July 2001 Project added to IASB agenda
(carried over from the old IASC) History of the project
5 December 2002 Exposure Draft ED 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions and related exposure drafts proposing amend­ments to IAS 36 and IAS 38 published Comment deadline 4 April 2003
31 March 2004 IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions (2004) and related amended versions of IAS 36 and IAS 38 issued
(IFRS 3 su­per­sedes IAS 22) Effective for business com­bi­na­tions for which the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004
29 April 2004 Exposure Draft Com­bi­na­tions by Contract Alone or Involving Mutual Entities published
(These proposals were not finalised, but instead con­sid­ered as part of the June 2005 exposure draft) Comment deadline 31 July 2004
30 June 2005 Exposure Draft Proposed Amend­ments to IFRS 3 published Comment deadline 28 October 2005
10 January 2008 IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions (2008) issued Applies to business com­bi­na­tions for which the ac­qui­si­tion date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009
6 May 2010 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010 (mea­sure­ment of non-con­trol­ling interests, replaced share-based payment awards, tran­si­tional arrange­ments for con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion) Ap­plic­a­ble for business com­bi­na­tions for which the ac­qui­si­tion date is on or after 1 July 2014
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle (scope exception for joint ventures) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
12 December 2017 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
22 October 2018 Amended by De­f­i­n­i­tion of a Business (Amend­ments to IFRS 3) Effective for business com­bi­na­tions for which the ac­qui­si­tion date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 2020 and to asset ac­qui­si­tions that occur on or after the beginning of that period
14 May 2020 Amended by Reference to the Conceptual Framework (Amend­ments to IFRS 3) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Common control trans­ac­tions
Goodwill and im­pair­ment
Summary of IFRS 3
Back­ground
IFRS 3 (2008) seeks to enhance the relevance, re­li­a­bil­ity and com­pa­ra­bil­ity of in­for­ma­tion provided about business com­bi­na­tions (e.g. ac­qui­si­tions and mergers) and their effects. It sets out the prin­ci­ples on the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of acquired assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, the de­ter­mi­na­tion of goodwill and the necessary dis­clo­sures.
IFRS 3 (2008) resulted from a joint project with the US Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and replaced IFRS 3 (2004). FASB issued a similar standard in December 2007 (SFAS 141(R)). The revisions result in a high degree of con­ver­gence between IFRSs and US GAAP in the accounting for business com­bi­na­tions, although some po­ten­tially sig­nif­i­cant dif­fer­ences remain.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 3, Appendix A]
business com­bi­na­tion
A trans­ac­tion or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of one or more busi­nesses. Trans­ac­tions sometimes referred to as 'true mergers' or 'mergers of equals' are also business com­bi­na­tions as that term is used in [IFRS 3]
business
An in­te­grated set of ac­tiv­i­ties and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing goods or services to customers, gen­er­at­ing in­vest­ment income (such as dividends or interest) or gen­er­at­ing other income from ordinary ac­tiv­i­ties*
ac­qui­si­tion date
The date on which the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree
acquirer
The entity that obtains control of the acquiree
acquiree
The business or busi­nesses that the acquirer obtains control of in a business com­bi­na­tion
*de­f­i­n­i­tion narrowed by 2018 amend­ments to IFRS 3 issued on 22 October 2018 effective 1 January 2020
Scope
IFRS 3 must be applied when accounting for business com­bi­na­tions, but does not apply to:
The formation of a joint venture [IFRS 3.2(a)]
The ac­qui­si­tion of an asset or group of assets that is not a business, although general guidance is provided on how such trans­ac­tions should be accounted for [IFRS 3.2(b)]
Com­bi­na­tions of entities or busi­nesses under common control (the IASB has a separate agenda project on common control trans­ac­tions) [IFRS 3.2(c)]
Ac­qui­si­tions by an in­vest­ment entity of a sub­sidiary that is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments. [IFRS 3.2A]
De­ter­min­ing whether a trans­ac­tion is a business com­bi­na­tion
IFRS 3 provides ad­di­tional guidance on de­ter­min­ing whether a trans­ac­tion meets the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a business com­bi­na­tion, and so accounted for in ac­cor­dance with its re­quire­ments. This guidance includes:
Business com­bi­na­tions can occur in various ways, such as by trans­fer­ring cash, incurring li­a­bil­i­ties, issuing equity in­stru­ments (or any com­bi­na­tion thereof), or by not issuing con­sid­er­a­tion at all (i.e. by contract alone) [IFRS 3.B5]
Business com­bi­na­tions can be struc­tured in various ways to satisfy legal, taxation or other ob­jec­tives, including one entity becoming a sub­sidiary of another, the transfer of net assets from one entity to another or to a new entity [IFRS 3.B6]
The business com­bi­na­tion must involve the ac­qui­si­tion of a business, which generally has three elements: [IFRS 3.B7]
Inputs – an economic resource (e.g. non-cur­rent assets, in­tel­lec­tual property) that creates outputs when one or more processes are applied to it
Process – a system, standard, protocol, con­ven­tion or rule that when applied to an input or inputs, creates outputs (e.g. strategic man­age­ment, op­er­a­tional processes, resource man­age­ment)
Output – the result of inputs and processes applied to those inputs.
Method of accounting for business com­bi­na­tions
Ac­qui­si­tion method
The ac­qui­si­tion method (called the 'purchase method' in the 2004 version of IFRS 3) is used for all business com­bi­na­tions. [IFRS 3.4]
Steps in applying the ac­qui­si­tion method are: [IFRS 3.5]
Iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of the 'acquirer'
De­ter­mi­na­tion of the 'ac­qui­si­tion date'
Recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of the iden­ti­fi­able assets acquired, the li­a­bil­i­ties assumed and any non-con­trol­ling interest (NCI, formerly called minority interest) in the acquiree
Recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase
Iden­ti­fy­ing an acquirer
The guidance in IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments is used to identify an acquirer in a business com­bi­na­tion, i.e. the entity that obtains 'control' of the acquiree. [IFRS 3.7]
If the guidance in IFRS 10 does not clearly indicate which of the combining entities is an acquirer, IFRS 3 provides ad­di­tional guidance which is then con­sid­ered:
The acquirer is usually the entity that transfers cash or other assets where the business com­bi­na­tion is effected in this manner [IFRS 3.B14]
The acquirer is usually, but not always, the entity issuing equity interests where the trans­ac­tion is effected in this manner, however the entity also considers other pertinent facts and cir­cum­stances including: [IFRS 3.B15]
relative voting rights in the combined entity after the business com­bi­na­tion
the existence of any large minority interest if no other owner or group of owners has a sig­nif­i­cant voting interest
the com­po­si­tion of the governing body and senior man­age­ment of the combined entity
the terms on which equity interests are exchanged
The acquirer is usually the entity with the largest relative size (assets, revenues or profit) [IFRS 3.B16]
For business com­bi­na­tions involving multiple entities, con­sid­er­a­tion is given to the entity ini­ti­at­ing the com­bi­na­tion, and the relative sizes of the combining entities. [IFRS 3.B17]
Ac­qui­si­tion date
An acquirer considers all pertinent facts and cir­cum­stances when de­ter­min­ing the ac­qui­si­tion date, i.e. the date on which it obtains control of the acquiree. The ac­qui­si­tion date may be a date that is earlier or later than the closing date. [IFRS 3.8-9]
IFRS 3 does not provide detailed guidance on the de­ter­mi­na­tion of the ac­qui­si­tion date and the date iden­ti­fied should reflect all relevant facts and cir­cum­stances. Con­sid­er­a­tions might include, among others, the date a public offer becomes un­con­di­tional (with a con­trol­ling interest acquired), when the acquirer can effect change in the board of directors of the acquiree, the date of ac­cep­tance of an un­con­di­tional offer, when the acquirer starts directing the acquiree's operating and financing policies, or the date com­pe­ti­tion or other au­thor­i­ties provide nec­es­sar­ily clear­ances.
  Acquired assets and li­a­bil­i­ties
IFRS 3 es­tab­lishes the following prin­ci­ples in relation to the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of items arising in a business com­bi­na­tion:
Recog­ni­tion principle. Iden­ti­fi­able assets acquired, li­a­bil­i­ties assumed, and non-con­trol­ling interests in the acquiree, are recog­nised sep­a­rately from goodwill [IFRS 3.10]
Mea­sure­ment principle. All assets acquired and li­a­bil­i­ties assumed in a business com­bi­na­tion are measured at ac­qui­si­tion-date fair value. [IFRS 3.18]
Ex­cep­tions to the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment prin­ci­ples
The following ex­cep­tions to the above prin­ci­ples apply:
Li­a­bil­i­ties and con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties within the scope of IAS 37 or IFRIC 21 – for trans­ac­tions and other events within the scope of IAS 37 or IFRIC 21, an acquirer applies IAS 37 or IFRIC 21 (instead of the Conceptual Framework) to identify the li­a­bil­i­ties it has assumed in a business com­bi­na­tion [IFRS 3.21A-21B]
Con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties and con­tin­gent assets – the re­quire­ments of IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets do not apply to the recog­ni­tion of con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties arising in a business com­bi­na­tion; an acquirer does not recognise con­tin­gent assets acquired in a business com­bi­na­tion [IFRS 3.22-23A]
Income taxes – the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of income taxes is in ac­cor­dance with IAS 12 Income Taxes [IFRS 3.24-25]
Employee benefits – assets and li­a­bil­i­ties arising from an acquiree's employee benefits arrange­ments are recog­nised and measured in ac­cor­dance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011) [IFRS 2.26]
In­dem­ni­fi­ca­tion assets - an acquirer recog­nises in­dem­ni­fi­ca­tion assets at the same time and on the same basis as the in­dem­ni­fied item [IFRS 3.27-28]
Reac­quired rights – the mea­sure­ment of reac­quired rights is by reference to the remaining con­trac­tual term without renewals [IFRS 3.29]
Share-based payment trans­ac­tions - these are measured by reference to the method in IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
Assets held for sale – IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions is applied in measuring acquired non-cur­rent assets and disposal groups clas­si­fied as held for sale at the ac­qui­si­tion date.
In applying the prin­ci­ples, an acquirer clas­si­fies and des­ig­nates assets acquired and li­a­bil­i­ties assumed on the basis of the con­trac­tual terms, economic con­di­tions, operating and accounting policies and other pertinent con­di­tions existing at the ac­qui­si­tion date. For example, this might include the iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of de­riv­a­tive financial in­stru­ments as hedging in­stru­ments, or the sep­a­ra­tion of embedded de­riv­a­tives from host contracts.[IFRS 3.15] However, ex­cep­tions are made for lease clas­si­fi­ca­tion (between operating and finance leases) and the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of contracts as insurance contracts, which are clas­si­fied on the basis of con­di­tions in place at the inception of the contract. [IFRS 3.17]
Acquired in­tan­gi­ble assets must be recog­nised and measured at fair value in ac­cor­dance with the prin­ci­ples if it is separable or arises from other con­trac­tual rights, ir­re­spec­tive of whether the acquiree had recog­nised the asset prior to the business com­bi­na­tion occurring. This is because there is always suf­fi­cient in­for­ma­tion to reliably measure the fair value of these assets. [IAS 38.33-37] There is no 'reliable mea­sure­ment' exception for such assets, as was present under IFRS 3 (2004).
Goodwill
Goodwill is measured as the dif­fer­ence between:
the aggregate of (i) the value of the con­sid­er­a­tion trans­ferred (generally at fair value), (ii) the amount of any non-con­trol­ling interest (NCI, see below), and (iii) in a business com­bi­na­tion achieved in stages (see below), the ac­qui­si­tion-date fair value of the acquirer's pre­vi­ously-held equity interest in the acquiree, and
the net of the ac­qui­si­tion-date amounts of the iden­ti­fi­able assets acquired and the li­a­bil­i­ties assumed (measured in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 3). [IFRS 3.32]
This can be written in sim­pli­fied equation form as follows:
Goodwill  =  Con­sid­er­a­tion trans­ferred  +  Amount of non-con­trol­ling interests  +  Fair value of previous equity interests  -  Net assets recog­nised
If the dif­fer­ence above is negative, the resulting gain is a bargain purchase in profit or loss, which may arise in cir­cum­stances such as a forced seller acting under com­pul­sion. [IFRS 3.34-35] However, before any bargain purchase gain is recog­nised in profit or loss, the acquirer is required to undertake a review to ensure the iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties is complete, and that mea­sure­ments ap­pro­pri­ately reflect con­sid­er­a­tion of all available in­for­ma­tion. [IFRS 3.36]
Choice in the mea­sure­ment of non-con­trol­ling interests (NCI)
IFRS 3 allows an accounting policy choice, available on a trans­ac­tion by trans­ac­tion basis, to measure non-con­trol­ling interests (NCI) either at: [IFRS 3.19]
fair value (sometimes called the full goodwill method), or
the NCI's pro­por­tion­ate share of net assets of the acquiree.
The choice in accounting policy applies only to present ownership interests in the acquiree that entitle holders to a pro­por­tion­ate share of the entity's net assets in the event of a liq­ui­da­tion (e.g. outside holdings of an acquiree's ordinary shares). Other com­po­nents of non-con­trol­ling interests at must be measured at ac­qui­si­tion date fair values or in ac­cor­dance with other ap­plic­a­ble IFRSs (e.g. share-based payment trans­ac­tions accounted for under IFRS 2 Share-based Payment). [IFRS 3.19]
  Example
P pays 800 to acquire an 80% interest in the ordinary shares of S. The ag­gre­gated fair value of 100% of S's iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties (de­ter­mined in ac­cor­dance with the re­quire­ments of IFRS 3) is 600, and the fair value of the non-con­trol­ling interest (the remaining 20% holding of ordinary shares) is 185.
The mea­sure­ment of the non-con­trol­ling interest, and its resultant impacts on the de­ter­mi­na­tion of goodwill, under each option is il­lus­trated below:
NCI based on
fair value NCI based on
net assets
Con­sid­er­a­tion trans­ferred 800    800   
Non-con­trol­ling interest 185 (1) 120 (2)
985    920   
Net assets (600)   (600)  
Goodwill 385    320   
(1) The fair value of the 20% non-con­trol­ling interest in S will not nec­es­sar­ily be pro­por­tion­ate to the price paid by P for its 80% interest, primarily due to any control premium or discount [IFRS 3.B45]
(2) Cal­cu­lated as 20% of the fair value of the net assets of 600.
  Business com­bi­na­tion achieved in stages (step ac­qui­si­tions)
Prior to control being obtained, an acquirer accounts for its in­vest­ment in the equity interests of an acquiree in ac­cor­dance with the nature of the in­vest­ment by applying the relevant standard, e.g. IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (2011), IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments, IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment or IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments. As part of accounting for the business com­bi­na­tion, the acquirer re­mea­sures any pre­vi­ously held interest at fair value and takes this amount into account in the de­ter­mi­na­tion of goodwill as noted above [IFRS 3.32] Any resultant gain or loss is recog­nised in profit or loss or other com­pre­hen­sive income as ap­pro­pri­ate. [IFRS 3.42]
The accounting treatment of an entity's pre-com­bi­na­tion interest in an acquiree is con­sis­tent with the view that the obtaining of control is a sig­nif­i­cant economic event that triggers a re­mea­sure­ment. Con­sis­tent with this view, all of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of the acquiree are fully re­mea­sured in ac­cor­dance with the re­quire­ments of IFRS 3 (generally at fair value). Ac­cord­ingly, the de­ter­mi­na­tion of goodwill occurs only at the ac­qui­si­tion date. This is different to the accounting for step ac­qui­si­tions under IFRS 3(2004).
Mea­sure­ment period
If the initial accounting for a business com­bi­na­tion can be de­ter­mined only pro­vi­sion­ally by the end of the first reporting period, the business com­bi­na­tion is accounted for using pro­vi­sional amounts. Ad­just­ments to pro­vi­sional amounts, and the recog­ni­tion of newly iden­ti­fied asset and li­a­bil­i­ties, must be made within the 'mea­sure­ment period' where they reflect new in­for­ma­tion obtained about facts and cir­cum­stances that were in existence at the ac­qui­si­tion date. [IFRS 3.45] The mea­sure­ment period cannot exceed one year from the ac­qui­si­tion date and no ad­just­ments are permitted after one year except to correct an error in ac­cor­dance with IAS 8. [IFRS 3.50]
Related trans­ac­tions and sub­se­quent accounting
General prin­ci­ples
In general:
trans­ac­tions that are not part of what the acquirer and acquiree (or its former owners) exchanged in the business com­bi­na­tion are iden­ti­fied and accounted for sep­a­rately from business com­bi­na­tion
the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties arising in a business com­bi­na­tion after the initial accounting for the business com­bi­na­tion is dealt with under other relevant standards, e.g. acquired inventory is sub­se­quently accounted under IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries. [IFRS 3.54]
When de­ter­min­ing whether a par­tic­u­lar item is part of the exchange for the acquiree or whether it is separate from the business com­bi­na­tion, an acquirer considers the reason for the trans­ac­tion, who initiated the trans­ac­tion and the timing of the trans­ac­tion. [IFRS 3.B50]
Con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion
Con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion must be measured at fair value at the time of the business com­bi­na­tion and is taken into account in the de­ter­mi­na­tion of goodwill. If the amount of con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion changes as a result of a post-ac­qui­si­tion event (such as meeting an earnings target), accounting for the change in con­sid­er­a­tion depends on whether the ad­di­tional con­sid­er­a­tion is clas­si­fied as an equity in­stru­ment or an asset or liability: [IFRS 3.58]
If the con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion is clas­si­fied as an equity in­stru­ment, the original amount is not re­mea­sured
If the ad­di­tional con­sid­er­a­tion is clas­si­fied as an asset or liability that is a financial in­stru­ment, the con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion is measured at fair value and gains and losses are recog­nised in either profit or loss or other com­pre­hen­sive income in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments or IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
If the ad­di­tional con­sid­er­a­tion is not within the scope of IFRS 9 (or IAS 39), it is accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets or other IFRSs as ap­pro­pri­ate.
Note: Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle changes these re­quire­ments for business com­bi­na­tions for which the ac­qui­si­tion date is on or after 1 July 2014. Under the amended re­quire­ments, con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion that is clas­si­fied as an asset or liability is measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes in fair value are recog­nised in profit or loss, both for con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion that is within the scope of IFRS 9/IAS 39 or otherwise.
Where a change in the fair value of con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion is the result of ad­di­tional in­for­ma­tion about facts and cir­cum­stances that existed at the ac­qui­si­tion date, these changes are accounted for as mea­sure­ment period ad­just­ments if they arise during the mea­sure­ment period (see above). [IFRS 3.58]
Ac­qui­si­tion costs
Costs of issuing debt or equity in­stru­ments are accounted for under IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion and IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment/IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments. All other costs as­so­ci­ated with an ac­qui­si­tion must be expensed, including re­im­burse­ments to the acquiree for bearing some of the ac­qui­si­tion costs. Examples of costs to be expensed include finder's fees; advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other pro­fes­sional or con­sult­ing fees; and general ad­min­is­tra­tive costs, including the costs of main­tain­ing an internal ac­qui­si­tions de­part­ment. [IFRS 3.53]
Pre-ex­ist­ing re­la­tion­ships and reac­quired rights
If the acquirer and acquiree were parties to a pre-ex­ist­ing re­la­tion­ship (for instance, the acquirer had granted the acquiree a right to use its in­tel­lec­tual property), this must must be accounted for sep­a­rately from the business com­bi­na­tion. In most cases, this will lead to the recog­ni­tion of a gain or loss for the amount of the con­sid­er­a­tion trans­ferred to the vendor which ef­fec­tively rep­re­sents a 'set­tle­ment' of the pre-ex­ist­ing re­la­tion­ship. The amount of the gain or loss is measured as follows:
for pre-ex­ist­ing non-con­trac­tual re­la­tion­ships (for example, a lawsuit): by reference to fair value
for pre-ex­ist­ing con­trac­tual re­la­tion­ships: at the lesser of (a) the favourable/un­favourable contract position and (b) any stated set­tle­ment pro­vi­sions in the contract available to the coun­ter­party to whom the contract is un­favourable. [IFRS 3.B51-53]
However, where the trans­ac­tion ef­fec­tively rep­re­sents a reac­quired right, an in­tan­gi­ble asset is recog­nised and measured on the basis of the remaining con­trac­tual term of the related contract excluding any renewals. The asset is then sub­se­quently amortised over the remaining con­trac­tual term, again excluding any renewals. [IFRS 3.55]
Con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties
Until a con­tin­gent liability is settled, cancelled or expired, a con­tin­gent liability that was recog­nised in the initial accounting for a business com­bi­na­tion is measured at the higher of the amount the liability would be recog­nised under IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets, and the amount less ac­cu­mu­lated amor­ti­sa­tion under IAS 18 Revenue. [IFRS 3.56]
Con­tin­gent payments to employees and share­hold­ers
As part of a business com­bi­na­tion, an acquirer may enter into arrange­ments with selling share­hold­ers or employees. In de­ter­min­ing whether such arrange­ments are part of the business com­bi­na­tion or accounted for sep­a­rately, the acquirer considers a number of factors, including whether the arrange­ment requires con­tin­u­ing em­ploy­ment (and if so, its term), the level or re­mu­ner­a­tion compared to other employees, whether payments to share­holder employees are in­cre­men­tal to non-em­ployee share­hold­ers, the relative number of shares owns, linkages to valuation of the acquiree, how the con­sid­er­a­tion is cal­cu­lated, and other agree­ments and issues. [IFRS 3.B55]
Where share-based payment arrange­ments of the acquiree exist and are replaced, the value of such awards must be ap­por­tioned between pre-com­bi­na­tion and post-com­bi­na­tion service and accounted for ac­cord­ingly. [IFRS 3.B56-B62B]
In­dem­ni­fi­ca­tion assets
In­dem­ni­fi­ca­tion assets recog­nised at the ac­qui­si­tion date (under the ex­cep­tions to the general recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment prin­ci­ples noted above) are sub­se­quently measured on the same basis of the in­dem­ni­fied liability or asset, subject to con­trac­tual impacts and col­lectibil­ity. In­dem­ni­fi­ca­tion assets are only dere­cog­nised when collected, sold or when rights to it are lost. [IFRS 3.57]
Other issues
In addition, IFRS 3 provides guidance on some specific aspects of business com­bi­na­tions including:
business com­bi­na­tions achieved without the transfer of con­sid­er­a­tion, e.g. 'dual listed' and 'stapled' arrange­ments [IFRS 3.43-44]
reverse ac­qui­si­tions [IFRS 3.B19]
iden­ti­fy­ing in­tan­gi­ble assets acquired [IFRS 3.B31-34]
Dis­clo­sure
Dis­clo­sure of in­for­ma­tion about current business com­bi­na­tions
An acquirer is required to disclose in­for­ma­tion that enables users of its financial state­ments to evaluate the nature and financial effect of a business com­bi­na­tion that occurs either during the current reporting period or after the end of the period but before the financial state­ments are au­tho­rised for issue. [IFRS 3.59]
Among the dis­clo­sures required to meet the foregoing objective are the following: [IFRS 3.B64-B66]
name and a de­scrip­tion of the acquiree
ac­qui­si­tion date
per­cent­age of voting equity interests acquired
primary reasons for the business com­bi­na­tion and a de­scrip­tion of how the acquirer obtained control of the acquiree
de­scrip­tion of the factors that make up the goodwill recog­nised
qual­i­ta­tive de­scrip­tion of the factors that make up the goodwill recog­nised, such as expected synergies from combining op­er­a­tions, in­tan­gi­ble assets that do not qualify for separate recog­ni­tion
ac­qui­si­tion-date fair value of the total con­sid­er­a­tion trans­ferred and the ac­qui­si­tion-date fair value of each major class of con­sid­er­a­tion
details of con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion arrange­ments and in­dem­ni­fi­ca­tion assets
details of acquired re­ceiv­ables
the amounts recog­nised as of the ac­qui­si­tion date for each major class of assets acquired and li­a­bil­i­ties assumed
details of con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties recog­nised
total amount of goodwill that is expected to be de­ductible for tax purposes
details about any trans­ac­tions that are recog­nised sep­a­rately from the ac­qui­si­tion of assets and as­sump­tion of li­a­bil­i­ties in the business com­bi­na­tion
in­for­ma­tion about a bargain purchase
in­for­ma­tion about the mea­sure­ment of non-con­trol­ling interests
details about a business com­bi­na­tion achieved in stages
in­for­ma­tion about the acquiree's revenue and profit or loss
in­for­ma­tion about a business com­bi­na­tion whose ac­qui­si­tion date is after the end of the reporting period but before the financial state­ments are au­tho­rised for issue
Dis­clo­sure of in­for­ma­tion about ad­just­ments of past business com­bi­na­tions
An acquirer is required to disclose in­for­ma­tion that enables users of its financial state­ments to evaluate the financial effects of ad­just­ments recog­nised in the current reporting period that relate to business com­bi­na­tions that occurred in the period or previous reporting periods. [IFRS 3.61]
Among the dis­clo­sures required to meet the foregoing objective are the following: [IFRS 3.B67]
details when the initial accounting for a business com­bi­na­tion is in­com­plete for par­tic­u­lar assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, non-con­trol­ling interests or items of con­sid­er­a­tion (and the amounts recog­nised in the financial state­ments for the business com­bi­na­tion thus have been de­ter­mined only pro­vi­sion­ally)
follow-up in­for­ma­tion on con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion
follow-up in­for­ma­tion about con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties recog­nised in a business com­bi­na­tion
a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the carrying amount of goodwill at the beginning and end of the reporting period, with various details shown sep­a­rately
the amount and an ex­pla­na­tion of any gain or loss recog­nised in the current reporting period that both:
relates to the iden­ti­fi­able assets acquired or li­a­bil­i­ties assumed in a business com­bi­na­tion that was effected in the current or previous reporting period, and
is of such a size, nature or incidence that dis­clo­sure is relevant to un­der­stand­ing the combined entity's financial state­ments.
Deloitte guide to IFRS 3 and IAS 27
In July 2008, the Deloitte IFRS Global Office has published Business Com­bi­na­tions and Changes in Ownership Interests: A Guide to the Revised IFRS 3 and IAS 27. This 164-page guide deals mainly with accounting for business com­bi­na­tions under IFRS 3(2008). Where ap­pro­pri­ate, it deals with related re­quire­ments of IAS 27(2008) – par­tic­u­larly as regards the de­f­i­n­i­tion of control, accounting for non-con­trol­ling interests, and changes in ownership interests. Other aspects of IAS 27 (such as the re­quire­ments to prepare con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments and detailed pro­ce­dures for con­sol­i­da­tion) are not addressed.
Click to download the new Guide to IFRS 3 and IAS 27 (PDF 647k).

Overview of dif­fer­ences between IFRS 3 (2008) and IFRS 3 (2004)
The table below sum­marises some of key dif­fer­ences in accounting for business com­bi­na­tions under IFRS 3 (2008) and IFRS 3 (2004). The table is not ex­haus­tive.
Area High-level overview of changes
Trans­ac­tion costs
ac­qui­si­tion costs such as adviser’s fees, stamp duty and similar costs cannot be included in the mea­sure­ment of goodwill
Cal­cu­la­tion of goodwill
pre-ex­ist­ing ownership interests are measured fair valued at ac­qui­si­tion date
option to measure non-con­trol­ling interests on the basis of fair value or net assets (trans­ac­tion by trans­ac­tion)
Con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion (e.g. earn-outs)
fair value accounting at the ac­qui­si­tion date
sub­se­quent changes do not impact goodwill but are accounted for sep­a­rately
Trans­ac­tions arising in con­junc­tion with business com­bi­na­tions
new detailed guidance on the split between com­pen­sa­tion and con­sid­er­a­tion for re­place­ment share-based payment awards
set­tle­ment of pre-ex­ist­ing re­la­tion­ships (contracts, legal cases, etc.) can result in a gain/loss
un­recog­nised deferred taxes no longer impact goodwill on sub­se­quent mea­sure­ment
Recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment
'reliable mea­sure­ment' exclusion for in­tan­gi­ble assets removed
new guidance on in­dem­ni­fi­ca­tion assets and assets not expected to be used
Changes in ownership interests
(see IFRS 10)
buying or selling minority interests in a sub­sidiary only impacts equity
loss of control requires fair valuing of retained holding and recycling of reserves
IFRS 4 — Insurance Contracts
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts applies, with limited ex­cep­tions, to all insurance contracts (including rein­sur­ance contracts) that an entity issues and to rein­sur­ance contracts that it holds. In light of the IASB's com­pre­hen­sive project on insurance contracts, the standard provides a temporary exemption from the re­quire­ments of some other IFRSs, including the re­quire­ment to consider IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors when selecting accounting policies for insurance contracts.
IFRS 4 was issued in March 2004 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005. IFRS 4 will be replaced by IFRS 17 as of 1 January 2023.
History of IFRS 4
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
1 April 2001 Com­pre­hen­sive insurance contracts project carried over from IASC to new IASB History of the com­pre­hen­sive project
May 2002 Short-term insurance contracts project split off from com­pre­hen­sive project History of the short-term project
31 July 2003 Exposure Draft ED 5 Insurance Contracts published Comment deadline 31 October 2003
31 March 2004 IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
18 August 2005 Amended by Financial Guarantee Contracts (Amend­ments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
12 September 2016 Amended by Applying IFRS 9 'Financial In­stru­ments' with IFRS 4 'Insurance Contracts' An entity choosing to apply the overlay approach ret­ro­spec­tively to qual­i­fy­ing financial assets does so when it first applies IFRS 9. An entity choosing to apply the deferral approach does so for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
18 May 2017 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts issued IFRS 17 will replace IFRS 4 as of 1 January 2021 2023
25 June 2020 Amend­ments to IFRS 17 and Extension of the Temporary Exemption from Applying IFRS 9 (Amend­ments to IFRS 4) issued The effective date of IFRS 17, which will be replacing IFRS 4, is now 1 January 2023; the fixed expiry date for the temporary exemption in IFRS 4 from applying IFRS 9 has been deferred to 1 January 2023.
27 August 2020 Amended by Interest Rate Benchmark Reform — Phase 2 (Amend­ments to IFRS 9, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and IFRS 16) The amend­ments require insurers who apply the temporary exemption from IFRS 9 to apply the amend­ments in IFRS 9 in accounting for mod­i­fi­ca­tions directly required by the IBOR reform, they are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by IASB
None
Summary of IFRS 4
Back­ground
IFRS 4 is the first guidance from the IASB on accounting for insurance contracts – but not the last. A com­pre­hen­sive project on insurance contracts is under way. The Board issued IFRS 4 because it saw an urgent need for improved dis­clo­sures for insurance contracts, and some im­prove­ments to recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment practices, in time for the adoption of IFRS by listed companies through­out Europe and elsewhere in 2005.
Scope
IFRS 4 applies to virtually all insurance contracts (including rein­sur­ance contracts) that an entity issues and to rein­sur­ance contracts that it holds. [IFRS 4.2] It does not apply to other assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of an insurer, such as financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties within the scope of IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment. [IFRS 4.3] Fur­ther­more, it does not address accounting by pol­i­cy­hold­ers. [IFRS 4.4(f)]
In 2005, the IASB amended the scope of IAS 39 to include financial guarantee contracts issued. However, if an issuer of financial guarantee contracts has pre­vi­ously asserted ex­plic­itly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting ap­plic­a­ble to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either IAS 39 or IFRS 4 to such financial guarantee contracts. [IFRS 4.4(d)]
De­f­i­n­i­tion of insurance contract
An insurance contract is a "contract under which one party (the insurer) accepts sig­nif­i­cant insurance risk from another party (the pol­i­cy­holder) by agreeing to com­pen­sate the pol­i­cy­holder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the pol­i­cy­holder." [IFRS 4.Appendix A]
Accounting policies
The IFRS exempts an insurer tem­porar­ily (until com­ple­tion of Phase II of the Insurance Project) from some re­quire­ments of other IFRSs, including the re­quire­ment to consider IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors in selecting accounting policies for insurance contracts. However, the standard: [IFRS 4.14]
prohibits pro­vi­sions for possible claims under contracts that are not in existence at the reporting date (such as cat­a­stro­phe and equal­i­sa­tion pro­vi­sions)
requires a test for the adequacy of recog­nised insurance li­a­bil­i­ties and an im­pair­ment test for rein­sur­ance assets
requires an insurer to keep insurance li­a­bil­i­ties in its balance sheet until they are dis­charged or cancelled, or expire, and prohibits off­set­ting insurance li­a­bil­i­ties against related rein­sur­ance assets and income or expense from rein­sur­ance contracts against the expense or income from the related insurance contract.
Changes in accounting policies
IFRS 4 permits an insurer to change its accounting policies for insurance contracts only if, as a result, its financial state­ments present in­for­ma­tion that is more relevant and no less reliable, or more reliable and no less relevant. [IFRS 4.22] In par­tic­u­lar, an insurer cannot introduce any of the following practices, although it may continue using accounting policies that involve them: [IFRS 4.25]
measuring insurance li­a­bil­i­ties on an undis­counted basis
measuring con­trac­tual rights to future in­vest­ment man­age­ment fees at an amount that exceeds their fair value as implied by a com­par­i­son with current mar­ket-based fees for similar services
using non-uni­form accounting policies for the insurance li­a­bil­i­ties of sub­sidiaries.
Re­mea­sur­ing insurance li­a­bil­i­ties
The IFRS permits the in­tro­duc­tion of an accounting policy that involves re­mea­sur­ing des­ig­nated insurance li­a­bil­i­ties con­sis­tently in each period to reflect current market interest rates (and, if the insurer so elects, other current estimates and as­sump­tions). Without this per­mis­sion, an insurer would have been required to apply the change in accounting policies con­sis­tently to all similar li­a­bil­i­ties. [IFRS 4.24]
Prudence
An insurer need not change its accounting policies for insurance contracts to eliminate excessive prudence. However, if an insurer already measures its insurance contracts with suf­fi­cient prudence, it should not introduce ad­di­tional prudence. [IFRS 4.26]
Future in­vest­ment margins
There is a re­but­table pre­sump­tion that an insurer's financial state­ments will become less relevant and reliable if it in­tro­duces an accounting policy that reflects future in­vest­ment margins in the mea­sure­ment of insurance contracts. [IFRS 4.27]
Asset clas­si­fi­ca­tions
When an insurer changes its accounting policies for insurance li­a­bil­i­ties, it may re­clas­sify some or all financial assets as 'at fair value through profit or loss'. [IFRS 4.45]
Other issues
The standard:
clarifies that an insurer need not account for an embedded de­riv­a­tive sep­a­rately at fair value if the embedded de­riv­a­tive meets the de­f­i­n­i­tion of an insurance contract [IFRS 4.7-8]
requires an insurer to unbundle (that is, to account sep­a­rately for) deposit com­po­nents of some insurance contracts, to avoid the omission of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties from its balance sheet [IFRS 4.10]
clarifies the ap­plic­a­bil­ity of the practice sometimes known as 'shadow accounting' [IFRS 4.30]
permits an expanded pre­sen­ta­tion for insurance contracts acquired in a business com­bi­na­tion or portfolio transfer [IFRS 4.31-33]
addresses limited aspects of dis­cre­tionary par­tic­i­pa­tion features contained in insurance contracts or financial in­stru­ments. [IFRS 4.34-35]
Dis­clo­sures
The standard requires dis­clo­sure of:
in­for­ma­tion that helps users un­der­stand the amounts in the insurer's financial state­ments that arise from insurance contracts: [IFRS 4.36-37]
accounting policies for insurance contracts and related assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income, and expense
the recog­nised assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income, expense, and cash flows arising from insurance contracts
if the insurer is a cedant, certain ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required
in­for­ma­tion about the as­sump­tions that have the greatest effect on the mea­sure­ment of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income, and expense including, if prac­ti­ca­ble, quan­ti­fied dis­clo­sure of those as­sump­tions
the effect of changes in as­sump­tions
rec­on­cil­i­a­tions of changes in insurance li­a­bil­i­ties, rein­sur­ance assets, and, if any, related deferred ac­qui­si­tion costs
In­for­ma­tion that helps users to evaluate the nature and extent of risks arising from insurance contracts: [IFRS 4.38-39]
risk man­age­ment ob­jec­tives and policies
those terms and con­di­tions of insurance contracts that have a material effect on the amount, timing, and un­cer­tainty of the insurer's future cash flows
in­for­ma­tion about insurance risk (both before and after risk mit­i­ga­tion by rein­sur­ance), including in­for­ma­tion about:
the sen­si­tiv­ity to insurance risk
con­cen­tra­tions of insurance risk
actual claims compared with previous estimates
the in­for­ma­tion about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk that IFRS 7 would require if the insurance contracts were within the scope of IFRS 7
in­for­ma­tion about exposures to market risk arising from embedded de­riv­a­tives contained in a host insurance contract if the insurer is not required to, and does not, measure the embedded de­riv­a­tives at fair value.
In­ter­ac­tion with IFRS 9
On 12 September 2016, the IASB issued amend­ments to IFRS 4 providing two options for entities that issue insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4:
an option that permits entities to re­clas­sify, from profit or loss to other com­pre­hen­sive income, some of the income or expenses arising from des­ig­nated financial assets; this is the so-called overlay approach;
an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 for entities whose pre­dom­i­nant activity is issuing contracts within the scope of IFRS 4; this is the so-called deferral approach.
An entity choosing to apply the overlay approach ret­ro­spec­tively to qual­i­fy­ing financial assets does so when it first applies IFRS 9. An entity choosing to apply the deferral approach does so for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The ap­pli­ca­tion of both ap­proaches is optional and an entity is permitted to stop applying them before the new insurance contracts standard is applied.
On 25 June 2020, the IASB issued Extension of the Temporary Exemption from Applying IFRS 9 (Amend­ments to IFRS 4) thereby deferring the fixed expiry date for the temporary exemption in IFRS 4 from applying IFRS 9 to 1 January 2023.
Rating agency analysis of IFRS 4
Fitch Ratings – a leading global fixed income rating agency – has analysed the im­pli­ca­tions of IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and has concluded that Fitch "does not expect any rating actions as a direct result of the move to IFRS. However, Fitch cannot rule out the pos­si­bil­ity that the ad­di­tional dis­clo­sure and in­for­ma­tion contained in the accounts could lead to rating changes due to an improved per­cep­tion of risk based on the enhanced in­for­ma­tion available." The special report Mind the GAAP: Fitch's View on Insurance IFRS provides an overview of IFRS 4 and the issues being addressed in Phase II of the IASB's insurance project; assesses the im­pli­ca­tions including increased volatil­ity, greater use of dis­count­ing and fair values, changes to income recog­ni­tion, and enhanced dis­clo­sures; and discusses how the changes affect ratings analysis. An excerpt:
Fitch welcomes the progress made by the IASB towards standards that will be more trans­par­ent and com­pa­ra­ble across regions. The agency recog­nises the sig­nif­i­cant lim­i­ta­tions of phase 1 but believes that the enhanced dis­clo­sure and greater con­sis­tency at phase 1 of the insurance accounting project (set out in IFRS 4) will aid in the analysis of insurers and is a useful stepping stone to the more valuable phase 2.
We are grateful to Fitch Ratings for allowing us to post their copy­righted report: Click to Download (PDF 209k).
IFRS 5 — Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions outlines how to account for non-cur­rent assets held for sale (or for dis­tri­b­u­tion to owners). In general terms, assets (or disposal groups) held for sale are not de­pre­ci­ated, are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, and are presented sep­a­rately in the statement of financial position. Specific dis­clo­sures are also required for dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions and disposals of non-cur­rent assets.
IFRS 5 was issued in March 2004 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IFRS 5
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
September 2002 Project added to IASB agenda History of the project
24 July 2003 Exposure Draft ED 4 Disposal of Non-cur­rent Assets and Pre­sen­ta­tion of Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions published Comment deadline 24 October 2003
31 March 2004 IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
22 May 2008 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 (sale of a con­trol­ling interest in the sub­sidiary) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
27 November 2008 Con­se­quen­tial amend­ments from IFRIC 17 Dis­tri­b­u­tions of Non-cash Assets to Owners (assets held for dis­tri­b­u­tion to owners) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
16 April 2009 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009 (dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments in other standards) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
25 September 2014 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2014 (changes in methods of disposal) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion
Con­ver­gence — Assets held for sale and dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions
Summary of IFRS 5
Back­ground
IFRS 5 achieves sub­stan­tial con­ver­gence with the re­quire­ments of US SFAS 144 Accounting for the Im­pair­ment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets with respect to the timing of the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of op­er­a­tions as dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions and the pre­sen­ta­tion of such op­er­a­tions. With respect to long-lived assets that are not being disposed of, the im­pair­ment recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment standards in SFAS 144 are sig­nif­i­cantly different from those in IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets. However those dif­fer­ences were not addressed in the short-term IASB-FASB con­ver­gence project.
Key pro­vi­sions of IFRS 5 relating to assets held for sale
Held-for-sale clas­si­fi­ca­tion
In general, the following con­di­tions must be met for an asset (or 'disposal group') to be clas­si­fied as held for sale: [IFRS 5.6-8]
man­age­ment is committed to a plan to sell
the asset is available for immediate sale
an active programme to locate a buyer is initiated
the sale is highly probable, within 12 months of clas­si­fi­ca­tion as held for sale (subject to limited ex­cep­tions)
the asset is being actively marketed for sale at a sales price rea­son­able in relation to its fair value
actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that plan will be sig­nif­i­cantly changed or withdrawn
The assets need to be disposed of through sale. Therefore, op­er­a­tions that are expected to be wound down or abandoned would not meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion (but may be clas­si­fied as dis­con­tin­ued once abandoned). [IFRS 5.13]
An entity that is committed to a sale involving loss of control of a sub­sidiary that qualifies for held-for-sale clas­si­fi­ca­tion under IFRS 5 clas­si­fies all of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of that sub­sidiary as held for sale, even if the entity will retain a non-con­trol­ling interest in its former sub­sidiary after the sale. [IFRS 5.8A]
Held for dis­tri­b­u­tion to owners clas­si­fi­ca­tion
The clas­si­fi­ca­tion, pre­sen­ta­tion and mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments of IFRS 5 also apply to a non-cur­rent asset (or disposal group) that is clas­si­fied as held for dis­tri­b­u­tion to owners. [IFRS 5.5A and IFRIC 17]  The entity must be committed to the dis­tri­b­u­tion, the assets must be available for immediate dis­tri­b­u­tion and the dis­tri­b­u­tion must be highly probable. [IFRS 5.12A]
Disposal group concept
A 'disposal group' is a group of assets, possibly with some as­so­ci­ated li­a­bil­i­ties, which an entity intends to dispose of in a single trans­ac­tion. The mea­sure­ment basis required for non-cur­rent assets clas­si­fied as held for sale is applied to the group as a whole, and any resulting im­pair­ment loss reduces the carrying amount of the non-cur­rent assets in the disposal group in the order of al­lo­ca­tion required by IAS 36. [IFRS 5.4]
Mea­sure­ment
The following prin­ci­ples apply:
At the time of clas­si­fi­ca­tion as held for sale. Im­me­di­ately before the initial clas­si­fi­ca­tion of the asset as held for sale, the carrying amount of the asset will be measured in ac­cor­dance with ap­plic­a­ble IFRSs. Resulting ad­just­ments are also recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with ap­plic­a­ble IFRSs. [IFRS 5.18]
After clas­si­fi­ca­tion as held for sale. Non-cur­rent assets or disposal groups that are clas­si­fied as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell (fair value less costs to dis­trib­ute in the case of assets clas­si­fied as held for dis­tri­b­u­tion to owners). [IFRS 5.15-15A]
Im­pair­ment.Im­pair­ment must be con­sid­ered both at the time of clas­si­fi­ca­tion as held for sale and sub­se­quently:
At the time of clas­si­fi­ca­tion as held for sale. Im­me­di­ately prior to clas­si­fy­ing an asset or disposal group as held for sale, im­pair­ment is measured and recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with the ap­plic­a­ble IFRSs (generally IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets, IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets, and IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment/IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments). Any im­pair­ment loss is recog­nised in profit or loss unless the asset had been measured at revalued amount under IAS 16 or IAS 38, in which case the im­pair­ment is treated as a reval­u­a­tion decrease.
After clas­si­fi­ca­tion as held for sale. Calculate any im­pair­ment loss based on the dif­fer­ence between the adjusted carrying amounts of the asset/disposal group and fair value less costs to sell. Any im­pair­ment loss that arises by using the mea­sure­ment prin­ci­ples in IFRS 5 must be recog­nised in profit or loss [IFRS 5.20], even for assets pre­vi­ously carried at revalued amounts. This is supported by IFRS 5 BC.47 and BC.48, which indicate the in­con­sis­tency with IAS 36.
Assets carried at fair value prior to initial clas­si­fi­ca­tion. For such assets, the re­quire­ment to deduct costs to sell from fair value may result in an immediate charge to profit or loss.
Sub­se­quent increases in fair value. A gain for any sub­se­quent increase in fair value less costs to sell of an asset can be recog­nised in the profit or loss to the extent that it is not in excess of the cu­mu­la­tive im­pair­ment loss that has been recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5 or pre­vi­ously in ac­cor­dance with IAS 36. [IFRS 5.21-22]
No de­pre­ci­a­tion. Non-cur­rent assets or disposal groups that are clas­si­fied as held for sale are not de­pre­ci­ated. [IFRS 5.25]
The mea­sure­ment pro­vi­sions of IFRS 5 do not apply to deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments, non-cur­rent assets measured at fair value in ac­cor­dance with IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture, and con­trac­tual rights under insurance contracts.  [IFRS 5.5]
Pre­sen­ta­tion
Assets clas­si­fied as held for sale, and the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties included within a disposal group clas­si­fied as held for sale, must be presented sep­a­rately on the face of the statement of financial position. [IFRS 5.38]
Dis­clo­sures
IFRS 5 requires the following dis­clo­sures about assets (or disposal groups) that are held for sale: [IFRS 5.41]
de­scrip­tion of the non-cur­rent asset or disposal group
de­scrip­tion of facts and cir­cum­stances of the sale (disposal) and the expected timing
im­pair­ment losses and reversals, if any, and where in the statement of com­pre­hen­sive income they are recog­nised
if ap­plic­a­ble, the re­portable segment in which the non-cur­rent asset (or disposal group) is presented in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments
Dis­clo­sures in other IFRSs do not apply to assets held for sale (or dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions, discussed below) unless those other IFRSs require specific dis­clo­sures in respect of such assets, or in respect of certain mea­sure­ment dis­clo­sures where assets and li­a­bil­i­ties are outside the scope of the mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments of IFRS 5. [IFRS 5.5B]
  Key pro­vi­sions of IFRS 5 relating to dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion as dis­con­tin­u­ing
A dis­con­tin­ued operation is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of or is clas­si­fied as held for sale, and: [IFRS 5.32]
rep­re­sents either a separate major line of business or a ge­o­graph­i­cal area of op­er­a­tions
is part of a single co-or­di­nated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or ge­o­graph­i­cal area of op­er­a­tions, or
is a sub­sidiary acquired ex­clu­sively with a view to resale and the disposal involves loss of control.
IFRS 5 prohibits the retroac­tive clas­si­fi­ca­tion as a dis­con­tin­ued operation, when the dis­con­tin­ued criteria are met after the end of the reporting period. [IFRS 5.12]
Dis­clo­sure in the statement of com­pre­hen­sive income
The sum of the post-tax profit or loss of the dis­con­tin­ued operation and the post-tax gain or loss recog­nised on the mea­sure­ment to fair value less cost to sell or fair value ad­just­ments on the disposal of the assets (or disposal group) is presented as a single amount on the face of the statement of com­pre­hen­sive income. If the entity presents profit or loss in a separate statement, a section iden­ti­fied as relating to dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions is presented in that separate statement. [IFRS 5.33-33A].
Detailed dis­clo­sure of revenue, expenses, pre-tax profit or loss and related income taxes is required either in the notes or in the statement of com­pre­hen­sive income in a section distinct from con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions. [IFRS 5.33] Such detailed dis­clo­sures must cover both the current and all prior periods presented in the financial state­ments. [IFRS 5.34]
Cash flow in­for­ma­tion
The net cash flows at­trib­ut­able to the operating, investing, and financing ac­tiv­i­ties of a dis­con­tin­ued operation is sep­a­rately presented on the face of the cash flow statement or disclosed in the notes. [IFRS 5.33]
Dis­clo­sures
The following ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required:
ad­just­ments made in the current period to amounts disclosed as a dis­con­tin­ued operation in prior periods must be sep­a­rately disclosed [IFRS 5.35]
if an entity ceases to classify a component as held for sale, the results of that component pre­vi­ously presented in dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions must be re­clas­si­fied and included in income from con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions for all periods presented [IFRS 5.36]
Special edition of IAS Plus Newslet­ter on IFRS 5
Click to download a Special Global Edition of our IAS Plus Newslet­ter (PDF 56k) devoted to IFRS 5.
IFRS 6 — Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 6 Ex­plo­ration for and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources has the effect of allowing entities adopting the standard for the first time to use accounting policies for ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets that were applied before adopting IFRSs. It also modifies im­pair­ment testing of ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets by in­tro­duc­ing different im­pair­ment in­di­ca­tors and allowing the carrying amount to be tested at an aggregate level (not greater than a segment).
IFRS 6 was issued in December 2004 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
History of IFRS 6
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
November 2000 IASC issues paper Summary of Issues: Ex­trac­tive In­dus­tries published and comments invited Comment deadline 30 June 2001
1 April 2001 Project on ex­trac­tive in­dus­tries carried over from IASC History of the com­pre­hen­sive project
September 2002 Short-term project split off from com­pre­hen­sive project History of the short-term project
16 January 2004 Exposure Draft ED 6 Ex­plo­ration for and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources published Comment deadline 16 April 2004
9 December 2004 IFRS 6 Ex­plo­ration and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
30 June 2005 Amended by Amend­ments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 6 Ex­plo­ration for and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources (tran­si­tional relief) Amended Basis for Con­clu­sions to IFRS 6 only
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Research project — In­tan­gi­ble assets
Summary of IFRS 6
De­f­i­n­i­tions
Ex­plo­ration for and eval­u­a­tion of mineral resources means the search for mineral resources, including minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-re­gen­er­a­tive resources after the entity has obtained legal rights to explore in a specific area, as well as the de­ter­mi­na­tion of the technical fea­si­bil­ity and com­mer­cial viability of ex­tract­ing the mineral resource. [IFRS 6.Appendix A]
Ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion ex­pen­di­tures are ex­pen­di­tures incurred in con­nec­tion with the ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion of mineral resources before the technical fea­si­bil­ity and com­mer­cial viability of ex­tract­ing a mineral resource is demon­stra­ble. [IFRS 6.Appendix A]
Accounting policies for ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion
IFRS 6 permits an entity to develop an accounting policy for recog­ni­tion of ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion ex­pen­di­tures as assets without specif­i­cally con­sid­er­ing the re­quire­ments of para­graphs 11 and 12 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. [IFRS 6.9] Thus, an entity adopting IFRS 6 may continue to use the accounting policies applied im­me­di­ately before adopting the IFRS. This includes con­tin­u­ing to use recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment practices that are part of those accounting policies.
Im­pair­ment
IFRS 6 ef­fec­tively modifies the ap­pli­ca­tion of IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets to ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets recog­nised by an entity under its accounting policy. Specif­i­cally:
Entities recog­nis­ing ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets are required to perform an im­pair­ment test on those assets when specific facts and cir­cum­stances outlined in the standard indicate an im­pair­ment test is required. The facts and cir­cum­stances outlined in IFRS 6 are non-ex­haus­tive, and are applied instead of the 'in­di­ca­tors of im­pair­ment' in IAS 36 [IFRS 6.19-20]
Entities are permitted to determine an accounting policy for al­lo­cat­ing ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets to cash-gen­er­at­ing units or groups of CGUs. [IFRS 6.21] This accounting policy may result in a different al­lo­ca­tion than might otherwise arise on applying the re­quire­ments of IAS 36
If an im­pair­ment test is required, any im­pair­ment loss is measured, presented and disclosed in ac­cor­dance with IAS 36. [IFRS 6.18]
Pre­sen­ta­tion and dis­clo­sure
An entity treats ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets as a separate class of assets and make the dis­clo­sures required by either IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment or IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets con­sis­tent with how the assets are clas­si­fied. [IFRS 6.25]
IFRS 6 requires dis­clo­sure of in­for­ma­tion that iden­ti­fies and explains the amounts recog­nised in its financial state­ments arising from the ex­plo­ration for and eval­u­a­tion of mineral resources, including: [IFRS 6.23–24]
its accounting policies for ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion ex­pen­di­tures including the recog­ni­tion of ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets
the amounts of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income and expense and operating and investing cash flows arising from the ex­plo­ration for and eval­u­a­tion of mineral resources.
Special IAS Plus Newslet­ter ex­plain­ing IFRS 6
On 31 January 2005, Deloitte's IFRS Global Office published a special edition of our IAS Plus Newslet­ter titled IFRS 6 Ex­plo­ration for and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources.
IFRS 7 — Financial Instruments: Disclosures
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures requires dis­clo­sure of in­for­ma­tion about the sig­nif­i­cance of financial in­stru­ments to an entity, and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial in­stru­ments, both in qual­i­ta­tive and quan­ti­ta­tive terms. Specific dis­clo­sures are required in relation to trans­ferred financial assets and a number of other matters.
IFRS 7 was orig­i­nally issued in August 2005 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
History of IFRS 7
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
22 July 2004 Exposure Draft ED 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures published Comment deadline 14 September 2009
18 August 2005 IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007
22 May 2008 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (required dis­clo­sures when interests in jointly con­trolled entities are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, pre­sen­ta­tion of finance costs) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
13 October 2008 Re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion of Financial Assets (Amend­ments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7) issued Effective 1 July 2008
23 December 2008 Exposure Draft In­vest­ments in Debt In­stru­ments (Proposed Amend­ments to IFRS 7) published Comment deadline 15 January 2009
(Project sub­se­quently abandoned in January 2009)
5 March 2009 Improving Dis­clo­sures about Financial In­stru­ments (Amend­ments to IFRS 7) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
6 May 2010 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (clar­i­fi­ca­tion of dis­clo­sures) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011
7 October 2010 Dis­clo­sures – Transfers of Financial Assets (Amend­ments to IFRS 7) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011
16 December 2011 Dis­clo­sures — Off­set­ting Financial Assets and Financial Li­a­bil­i­ties (Amend­ments to IFRS 7) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
16 December 2011 Mandatory Effective Date and Tran­si­tion Dis­clo­sures (Amend­ments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 (or otherwise when IFRS 9 is first applied)*
19 November 2013 IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (Hedge Accounting and amend­ments to IFRS 9, IFRS 7 and IAS 39) issued, im­ple­ment­ing ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures (and con­se­quen­tial amend­ments) resulting from the in­tro­duc­tion of the hedge accounting chapter in IFRS 9 Applies when IFRS 9 is applied*
25 September 2014 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2014 (servicing contracts and ap­plic­a­bil­ity of the amend­ments to IFRS 7 to condensed interim financial state­ments) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
26 September 2019 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (Amend­ments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7) issued, requiring ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures around un­cer­tainty arising from the interest rate benchmark reform Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020
27 August 2020 Amended by Interest Rate Benchmark Reform — Phase 2 (Amend­ments to IFRS 9, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and IFRS 16); the amend­ments require ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures that allow users to un­der­stand the nature and extent of risks arising from the IBOR reform to which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages those risks Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021
* The release of IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (2013) on 19 November 2013 contained no stated effective date and contained con­se­quen­tial amend­ments which removed the mandatory effective date of IFRS 9 (2010) and IFRS 9 (2009), leaving the effective date open but leaving each standard available for ap­pli­ca­tion. Ac­cord­ingly, these amend­ments apply when IFRS 9 is applied.
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by IASB
None
Summary of IFRS 7
Overview of IFRS 7
IFRS 7:
adds certain new dis­clo­sures about financial in­stru­ments to those pre­vi­ously required by IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sure and Pre­sen­ta­tion (as it was then cited)
replaces the dis­clo­sures pre­vi­ously required by IAS 30 Dis­clo­sures in the Financial State­ments of Banks and Similar Financial In­sti­tu­tions
puts all of those financial in­stru­ments dis­clo­sures together in a new standard on Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures. The remaining parts of IAS 32 deal only with financial in­stru­ments pre­sen­ta­tion matters.
Dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments of IFRS 7
IFRS requires certain dis­clo­sures to be presented by category of in­stru­ment based on the IAS 39 mea­sure­ment cat­e­gories. Certain other dis­clo­sures are required by class of financial in­stru­ment. For those dis­clo­sures an entity must group its financial in­stru­ments into classes of similar in­stru­ments as ap­pro­pri­ate to the nature of the in­for­ma­tion presented. [IFRS 7.6]
The two main cat­e­gories of dis­clo­sures required by IFRS 7 are:
in­for­ma­tion about the sig­nif­i­cance of financial in­stru­ments.
in­for­ma­tion about the nature and extent of risks arising from financial in­stru­ments
In­for­ma­tion about the sig­nif­i­cance of financial in­stru­ments
Statement of financial position
Disclose the sig­nif­i­cance of financial in­stru­ments for an entity's financial position and per­for­mance. [IFRS 7.7] This includes dis­clo­sures for each of the following cat­e­gories: [IFRS 7.8]
financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss, showing sep­a­rately those held for trading and those des­ig­nated at initial recog­ni­tion
held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments
loans and re­ceiv­ables
avail­able-for-sale assets
financial li­a­bil­i­ties at fair value through profit and loss, showing sep­a­rately those held for trading and those des­ig­nated at initial recog­ni­tion
financial li­a­bil­i­ties measured at amortised cost
Other balance sheet-re­lated dis­clo­sures:
special dis­clo­sures about financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties des­ig­nated to be measured at fair value through profit and loss, including dis­clo­sures about credit risk and market risk, changes in fair values at­trib­ut­able to these risks and the methods of mea­sure­ment.[IFRS 7.9-11]
re­clas­si­fi­ca­tions of financial in­stru­ments from one category to another (e.g. from fair value to amortised cost or vice versa) [IFRS 7.12-12A]
in­for­ma­tion about financial assets pledged as col­lat­eral and about financial or non-fi­nan­cial assets held as col­lat­eral [IFRS 7.14-15]
rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the allowance account for credit losses (bad debts) by class of financial assets[IFRS 7.16]
in­for­ma­tion about compound financial in­stru­ments with multiple embedded de­riv­a­tives [IFRS 7.17]
breaches of terms of loan agree­ments [IFRS 7.18-19]
Statement of com­pre­hen­sive income
Items of income, expense, gains, and losses, with separate dis­clo­sure of gains and losses from: [IFRS 7.20(a)]
financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss, showing sep­a­rately those held for trading and those des­ig­nated at initial recog­ni­tion.
held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments.
loans and re­ceiv­ables.
avail­able-for-sale assets.
financial li­a­bil­i­ties measured at fair value through profit and loss, showing sep­a­rately those held for trading and those des­ig­nated at initial recog­ni­tion.
financial li­a­bil­i­ties measured at amortised cost.
Other income state­ment-re­lated dis­clo­sures: 
total interest income and total interest expense for those financial in­stru­ments that are not measured at fair value through profit and loss [IFRS 7.20(b)]
fee income and expense [IFRS 7.20(c)]
amount of im­pair­ment losses by class of financial assets [IFRS 7.20(e)]
interest income on impaired financial assets [IFRS 7.20(d)]
Other dis­clo­sures
Accounting policies for financial in­stru­ments [IFRS 7.21]
In­for­ma­tion about hedge accounting, including: [IFRS 7.22]
de­scrip­tion of each hedge, hedging in­stru­ment, and fair values of those in­stru­ments, and nature of risks being hedged
for cash flow hedges, the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur, when they are expected to enter into the de­ter­mi­na­tion of profit or loss, and a de­scrip­tion of any forecast trans­ac­tion for which hedge accounting had pre­vi­ously been used but which is no longer expected to occur
if a gain or loss on a hedging in­stru­ment in a cash flow hedge has been recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income, an entity should disclose the following: [IAS 7.23]
the amount that was so recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income during the period
the amount that was removed from equity and included in profit or loss for the period
the amount that was removed from equity during the period and included in the initial mea­sure­ment of the ac­qui­si­tion cost or other carrying amount of a non-fi­nan­cial asset or non- financial liability in a hedged highly probable forecast trans­ac­tion
Note: Where IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (2013) is applied, revised dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments apply. The required hedge accounting dis­clo­sures apply where the entity elects to adopt hedge accounting and require in­for­ma­tion to be provided in three broad cat­e­gories: (1) the entity’s risk man­age­ment strategy and how it is applied to manage risk (2) how the entity’s hedging ac­tiv­i­ties may affect the amount, timing and un­cer­tainty of its future cash flows, and (3) the effect that hedge accounting has had on the entity’s statement of financial position, statement of com­pre­hen­sive income and statement of changes in equity. The dis­clo­sures are required to be presented in a single note or separate section in its financial state­ments, although some in­for­ma­tion can be in­cor­po­rated by reference.
For fair value hedges, in­for­ma­tion about the fair value changes of the hedging in­stru­ment and the hedged item [IFRS 7.24(a)]
Hedge in­ef­fec­tive­ness recog­nised in profit and loss (sep­a­rately for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation) [IFRS 7.24(b-c)]
Un­cer­tainty arising from the interest rate benchmark reform [IFRS 7.24H]
In­for­ma­tion about the fair values of each class of financial asset and financial liability, along with: [IFRS 7.25-30]
com­pa­ra­ble carrying amounts
de­scrip­tion of how fair value was de­ter­mined
the level of inputs used in de­ter­min­ing fair value
rec­on­cil­i­a­tions of movements between levels of fair value mea­sure­ment hierarchy ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures for financial in­stru­ments whose fair value is de­ter­mined using level 3 inputs including impacts on profit and loss, other com­pre­hen­sive income and sen­si­tiv­ity analysis
in­for­ma­tion if fair value cannot be reliably measured
The fair value hierarchy in­tro­duces 3 levels of inputs based on the lowest level of input sig­nif­i­cant to the overall fair value (IFRS 7.27A-27B):
Level 1 – quoted prices for similar in­stru­ments
Level 2 – directly ob­serv­able market inputs other than Level 1 inputs
Level 3 – inputs not based on ob­serv­able market data
Note that dis­clo­sure of fair values is not required when the carrying amount is a rea­son­able ap­prox­i­ma­tion of fair value, such as short-term trade re­ceiv­ables and payables, or for in­stru­ments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably. [IFRS 7.29(a)]
Nature and extent of exposure to risks arising from financial in­stru­ments
Qual­i­ta­tive dis­clo­sures [IFRS 7.33]
The qual­i­ta­tive dis­clo­sures describe:
risk exposures for each type of financial in­stru­ment
man­age­ment's ob­jec­tives, policies, and processes for managing those risks
changes from the prior period
Quan­ti­ta­tive dis­clo­sures
The quan­ti­ta­tive dis­clo­sures provide in­for­ma­tion about the extent to which the entity is exposed to risk, based on in­for­ma­tion provided in­ter­nally to the entity's key man­age­ment personnel. These dis­clo­sures include: [IFRS 7.34]
summary quan­ti­ta­tive data about exposure to each risk at the reporting date
dis­clo­sures about credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risk and how these risks are managed as further described below
con­cen­tra­tions of risk
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial in­stru­ment will cause a loss for the other party by failing to pay for its oblig­a­tion. [IFRS 7. Appendix A]
Dis­clo­sures about credit risk include: [IFRS 7.36-38]
maximum amount of exposure (before deducting the value of col­lat­eral), de­scrip­tion of col­lat­eral, in­for­ma­tion about credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired, and in­for­ma­tion about credit quality of financial assets whose terms have been rene­go­ti­ated [IFRS 7.36]
for financial assets that are past due or impaired, an­a­lyt­i­cal dis­clo­sures are required [IFRS 7.37]
in­for­ma­tion about col­lat­eral or other credit en­hance­ments obtained or called [IFRS 7.38]
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will have dif­fi­cul­ties in paying its financial li­a­bil­i­ties. [IFRS 7. Appendix A]
Dis­clo­sures about liquidity risk include: [IFRS 7.39]
a maturity analysis of financial li­a­bil­i­ties
de­scrip­tion of approach to risk man­age­ment
Market risk [IFRS 7.40-42]
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or cash flows of a financial in­stru­ment will fluctuate due to changes in market prices. Market risk reflects interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risks. [IFRS 7. Appendix A]
Dis­clo­sures about market risk include:
a sen­si­tiv­ity analysis of each type of market risk to which the entity is exposed
ad­di­tional in­for­ma­tion if the sen­si­tiv­ity analysis is not rep­re­sen­ta­tive of the entity's risk exposure (for example because exposures during the year were different to exposures at year-end).
IFRS 7 provides that if an entity prepares a sen­si­tiv­ity analysis such as value-at-risk for man­age­ment purposes that reflects in­ter­de­pen­den­cies of more than one component of market risk (for instance, interest risk and foreign currency risk combined), it may disclose that analysis instead of a separate sen­si­tiv­ity analysis for each type of market risk
Transfers of financial assets [IFRS 7.42A-H]
An entity shall disclose in­for­ma­tion that enables users of its financial state­ments:
to un­der­stand the re­la­tion­ship between trans­ferred financial assets that are not dere­cog­nised in their entirety and the as­so­ci­ated li­a­bil­i­ties; and
to evaluate the nature of, and risks as­so­ci­ated with, the entity's con­tin­u­ing in­volve­ment in dere­cog­nised financial assets. [IFRS 7 42B]
Trans­ferred financial assets that are not dere­cog­nised in their entirety
Required dis­clo­sures include de­scrip­tion of the nature of the trans­ferred assets, nature of risk and rewards as well as de­scrip­tion of the nature and quan­ti­ta­tive dis­clo­sure depicting re­la­tion­ship between trans­ferred financial assets and the as­so­ci­ated li­a­bil­i­ties. [IFRS 7.42D]
Trans­ferred financial assets that are dere­cog­nised in their entirety
Required dis­clo­sures include the carrying amount of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties recog­nised, fair value of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties that represent con­tin­u­ing in­volve­ment, maximum exposure to loss from the con­tin­u­ing in­volve­ment as well as maturity analysis of the undis­counted cash flows to re­pur­chase the dere­cog­nised financial assets. [IFRS 7.42E]
Ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required for any gain or loss recog­nised at the date of transfer of the assets, income or expenses recognise from the entity's con­tin­u­ing in­volve­ment in the dere­cog­nised financial assets as well as details of uneven dis­tri­b­u­tion of proceed from transfer activity through­out the reporting period. [IFRS 7.42G]
Ap­pli­ca­tion guidance
An appendix of mandatory ap­pli­ca­tion guidance (Appendix B) is part of the standard.
There is also an appendix of non-manda­tory im­ple­men­ta­tion guidance (Appendix C) that describes how an entity might provide the dis­clo­sures required by IFRS 7.
IFRS 8 — Operating Segments
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires par­tic­u­lar classes of entities (es­sen­tially those with publicly traded se­cu­ri­ties) to disclose in­for­ma­tion about their operating segments, products and services, the ge­o­graph­i­cal areas in which they operate, and their major customers. In­for­ma­tion is based on internal man­age­ment reports, both in the iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of operating segments and mea­sure­ment of disclosed segment in­for­ma­tion.
IFRS 8 was issued in November 2006 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
History of IFRS 8
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
19 January 2006 ED 8 Operating Segments issued Comment deadline 19 May 2006. (IASB press release)
30 November 2006 IFRS 8 Operating Segments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, su­per­sed­ing IAS 14 Segment Reporting
16 April 2009 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009 (dis­clo­sures of segment assets) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
18 July 2013 Report and Feedback Statement Post-im­ple­men­ta­tion Review: IFRS 8 Operating Segments published Areas for potential im­prove­ment and amendment will be con­sid­ered through the IASB's normal processes
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (ag­gre­ga­tion of operating segments, rec­on­cil­i­a­tions of assets) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by IASB
None
Deloitte resources
Special edition newslet­ter
Deloitte has published a Special edition IAS Plus newslet­ter ex­plain­ing the re­quire­ments of IFRS 8 and what has changed from IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
Summary of IFRS 8
Scope
IFRS 8 applies to the separate or in­di­vid­ual financial state­ments of an entity (and to the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments of a group with a parent):
whose debt or equity in­stru­ments are traded in a public market or
that files, or is in the process of filing, its (con­sol­i­dated) financial state­ments with a se­cu­ri­ties com­mis­sion or other reg­u­la­tory organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of in­stru­ments in a public market [IFRS 8.2]
However, when both separate and con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments for the parent are presented in a single financial report, segment in­for­ma­tion need be presented only on the basis of the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments [IFRS 8.4]
Operating segments
IFRS 8 defines an operating segment as follows. An operating segment is a component of an entity: [IFRS 8.2]
that engages in business ac­tiv­i­ties from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses (including revenues and expenses relating to trans­ac­tions with other com­po­nents of the same entity)
whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity's chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its per­for­mance and
for which discrete financial in­for­ma­tion is available
Re­portable segments
IFRS 8 requires an entity to report financial and de­scrip­tive in­for­ma­tion about its re­portable segments. Re­portable segments are operating segments or ag­gre­ga­tions of operating segments that meet specified criteria: [IFRS 8.13]
its reported revenue, from both external customers and in­ter­seg­ment sales or transfers, is 10 per cent or more of the combined revenue, internal and external, of all operating segments, or
the absolute measure of its reported profit or loss is 10 per cent or more of the greater, in absolute amount, of (i) the combined reported profit of all operating segments that did not report a loss and (ii) the combined reported loss of all operating segments that reported a loss, or
its assets are 10 per cent or more of the combined assets of all operating segments.
Two or more operating segments may be ag­gre­gated into a single operating segment if ag­gre­ga­tion is con­sis­tent with the core prin­ci­ples of the standard, the segments have similar economic char­ac­ter­is­tics and are similar in various pre­scribed respects. [IFRS 8.12]
If the total external revenue reported by operating segments con­sti­tutes less than 75 per cent of the entity's revenue, ad­di­tional operating segments must be iden­ti­fied as re­portable segments (even if they do not meet the quan­ti­ta­tive thresh­olds set out above) until at least 75 per cent of the entity's revenue is included in re­portable segments. [IFRS 8.15]
Dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments
Required dis­clo­sures include:
general in­for­ma­tion about how the entity iden­ti­fied its operating segments and the types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues [IFRS 8.22]
judge­ments made by man­age­ment in applying the ag­gre­ga­tion criteria to allow two or more operating segments to be ag­gre­gated [IFRS 8.22(aa)]#
in­for­ma­tion about the profit or loss for each re­portable segment, including certain specified revenues* and expenses* such as revenue from external customers and from trans­ac­tions with other segments, interest revenue and expense, de­pre­ci­a­tion and amor­ti­sa­tion, income tax expense or income and material non-cash items [IFRS 8.21(b) and 23]
a measure of total assets* and total li­a­bil­i­ties* for each re­portable segment, and the amount of in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures and the amounts of additions to certain non-cur­rent assets ('capital ex­pen­di­ture') [IFRS 8.23-24]
an ex­pla­na­tion of the mea­sure­ments of segment profit or loss, segment assets and segment li­a­bil­i­ties, including certain minimum dis­clo­sures, e.g. how trans­ac­tions between segments are measured, the nature of mea­sure­ment dif­fer­ences between segment in­for­ma­tion and other in­for­ma­tion included in the financial state­ments, and asym­met­ri­cal al­lo­ca­tions to re­portable segments [IFRS 8.27]
rec­on­cil­i­a­tions of the totals of segment revenues, reported segment profit or loss, segment assets*, segment li­a­bil­i­ties* and other material items to cor­re­spond­ing items in the entity's financial state­ments [IFRS 8.21(b) and 28]
some en­tity-wide dis­clo­sures that are required even when an entity has only one re­portable segment, including in­for­ma­tion about each product and service or groups of products and services [IFRS 8.32]
analyses of revenues and certain non-cur­rent assets by ge­o­graph­i­cal area – with an expanded re­quire­ment to disclose revenues/assets by in­di­vid­ual foreign country (if material), ir­re­spec­tive of the iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of operating segments [IFRS 8.33]
in­for­ma­tion about trans­ac­tions with major customers [IFRS 8.34]
# This dis­clo­sure re­quire­ment was added by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
* This dis­clo­sure is required only if such amounts are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker, or in the case of specific items of revenue and expense or as­set-re­lated items, if those specified amounts are included in the relevant measure (segment profit or loss or segment assets).
Con­sid­er­able segment in­for­ma­tion is required at interim reporting dates by IAS 34.
Remaining dif­fer­ences with US GAAP
The remaining dif­fer­ences with US GAAP (SFAS 131) are listed in IFRS 8.BC60.
IFRS 9 — Financial Instruments
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments issued on 24 July 2014 is the IASB's re­place­ment of IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment. The Standard includes re­quire­ments for recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment, im­pair­ment, dere­cog­ni­tion and general hedge accounting. The IASB completed its project to replace IAS 39 in phases, adding to the standard as it completed each phase.
The version of IFRS 9 issued in 2014 su­per­sedes all previous versions and is manda­to­rily effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted (subject to local en­dorse­ment re­quire­ments). For a limited period, previous versions of IFRS 9 may be adopted early if not already done so provided the relevant date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion is before 1 February 2015.
IFRS 9 does not replace the re­quire­ments for portfolio fair value hedge accounting for interest rate risk (often referred to as the ‘macro hedge accounting’ re­quire­ments) since this phase of the project was separated from the IFRS 9 project due to the longer term nature of the macro hedging project which is currently at the dis­cus­sion paper phase of the due process. In April 2014, the IASB published a Dis­cus­sion Paper Accounting for Dynamic Risk man­age­ment: a Portfolio Reval­u­a­tion Approach to Macro Hedging. Con­se­quently, the exception in IAS 39 for a fair value hedge of an interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial assets or financial li­a­bil­i­ties continues to apply.
  History of IFRS 9
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
14 July 2009 Exposure Draft ED/2009/7 Financial In­stru­ments: Clas­si­fi­ca­tion and Mea­sure­ment published Comment deadline 14 September 2009
12 November 2009 IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments issued, covering clas­si­fi­ca­tion and mea­sure­ment of financial assets Original effective date 1 January 2013, later removed
11 May 2010 Exposure Draft ED/2010/4 Fair Value Option for Financial Li­a­bil­i­ties published Comment deadline 16 July 2010
28 October 2010 IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments reissued, in­cor­po­rat­ing new re­quire­ments on accounting for financial li­a­bil­i­ties and carrying over from IAS 39 the re­quire­ments for dere­cog­ni­tion of financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties Original effective date 1 January 2013, later removed
4 August 2011 ED/2011/3 Amend­ments to IFRS 9 (2009) and IFRS 9 (2010): Mandatory Effective Date published, proposing the adjust the mandatory effective date of IFRS 9 from 1 January 2013 to 1 January 2015 Comment deadline 21 October 2011
16 December 2011 Mandatory Effective Date and Tran­si­tion Dis­clo­sures (Amend­ments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7) published Amended the effective date of IFRS 9 to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 (removed in 2013), and modified the relief from restating com­par­a­tive periods and the as­so­ci­ated dis­clo­sures in IFRS 7
28 November 2012 Exposure Draft ED/2012/4 Clas­si­fi­ca­tion and Mea­sure­ment: Limited Amend­ments to IFRS 9 (proposed amend­ments to IFRS 9 (2010)) published Comment deadline 28 March 2013
19 November 2013 IASB issues IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (Hedge Accounting and amend­ments to IFRS 9, IFRS 7 and IAS 39) amending IFRS 9 to:
include the new general hedge accounting model;
allow early adoption of the re­quire­ment to present fair value changes due to own credit on li­a­bil­i­ties des­ig­nated as at fair value through profit or loss to be presented in other com­pre­hen­sive income; and
remove the 1 January 2015 effective date
Removed the mandatory effective date of IFRS 9 (2009) and IFRS 9 (2010)
24 July 2014 IASB issues IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments
IFRS 9 (2014) was issued as a complete standard including the re­quire­ments pre­vi­ously issued and the ad­di­tional amend­ments to introduce a new expected loss im­pair­ment model and limited changes to the clas­si­fi­ca­tion and mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments for financial assets.
This amendment completes the IASB’s financial in­stru­ments project and the Standard is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted (subject to local en­dorse­ment re­quire­ments).
12 September 2016 IASB issues Applying IFRS 9 'Financial In­stru­ments' with IFRS 4 'Insurance Contracts' (Amend­ments to IFRS 4) to address concerns about the different effective dates of IFRS 9 and the new insurance contracts standard
An entity choosing to apply the overlay approach ret­ro­spec­tively to qual­i­fy­ing financial assets does so when it first applies IFRS 9. An entity choosing to apply the deferral approach does so for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
12 October 2017 IASB issues Pre­pay­ment Features with Negative Com­pen­sa­tion (Amend­ments to IFRS 9) to address the concerns about how IFRS 9 clas­si­fies par­tic­u­lar pre­payable financial assets
The amend­ments are to be applied ret­ro­spec­tively for fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January 2019; early ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
14 May 2020 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2018–2020 (fees in the ‘10 per cent’ test for dere­cog­ni­tion of financial li­a­bil­i­ties). Click for more in­for­ma­tion
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Related projects
Financial in­stru­ments — Macro hedge accounting
IBOR reform and the effects on financial reporting — Phase 2
Summary of IFRS 9

The phased com­ple­tion of IFRS 9
On 12 November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments as the first step in its project to replace IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment. IFRS 9 in­tro­duced new re­quire­ments for clas­si­fy­ing and measuring financial assets that had to be applied starting 1 January 2013, with early adoption permitted. Click for IASB Press Release (PDF 101k).
On 28 October 2010, the IASB reissued IFRS 9, in­cor­po­rat­ing new re­quire­ments on accounting for financial li­a­bil­i­ties, and carrying over from IAS 39 the re­quire­ments for dere­cog­ni­tion of financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties. Click for IASB Press Release (PDF 33k).
On 16 December 2011, the IASB issued Mandatory Effective Date and Tran­si­tion Dis­clo­sures (Amend­ments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7), which amended the effective date of IFRS 9 to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, and modified the relief from restating com­par­a­tive periods and the as­so­ci­ated dis­clo­sures in IFRS 7.
On 19 November 2013, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (Hedge Accounting and amend­ments to IFRS 9, IFRS 7 and IAS 39) amending IFRS 9 to include the new general hedge accounting model, allow early adoption of the treatment of fair value changes due to own credit on li­a­bil­i­ties des­ig­nated at fair value through profit or loss and remove the 1 January 2015 effective date.
On 24 July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 in­cor­po­rat­ing a new expected loss im­pair­ment model and in­tro­duc­ing limited amend­ments to the clas­si­fi­ca­tion and mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments for financial assets.   This version su­per­sedes all previous versions and is manda­to­rily effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted (subject to local en­dorse­ment re­quire­ments). For a limited period, previous versions of IFRS 9 may be adopted early if not already done so provided the relevant date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion is before 1 February 2015.
Overview of IFRS 9
Initial mea­sure­ment of financial in­stru­ments
All financial in­stru­ments are initially measured at fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, trans­ac­tion costs. [IFRS 9, paragraph 5.1.1]
Sub­se­quent mea­sure­ment of financial assets
IFRS 9 divides all financial assets that are currently in the scope of IAS 39 into two clas­si­fi­ca­tions - those measured at amortised cost and those measured at fair value.
Where assets are measured at fair value, gains and losses are either recog­nised entirely in profit or loss (fair value through profit or loss, FVTPL), or recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income (fair value through other com­pre­hen­sive income, FVTOCI).
For debt in­stru­ments the FVTOCI clas­si­fi­ca­tion is mandatory for certain assets unless the fair value option is elected. Whilst for equity in­vest­ments, the FVTOCI clas­si­fi­ca­tion is an election. Fur­ther­more, the re­quire­ments for re­clas­si­fy­ing gains or losses recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income are different for debt in­stru­ments and equity in­vest­ments.
The clas­si­fi­ca­tion of a financial asset is made at the time it is initially recog­nised, namely when the entity becomes a party to the con­trac­tual pro­vi­sions of the in­stru­ment. [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.1.1] If certain con­di­tions are met, the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of an asset may sub­se­quently need to be re­clas­si­fied.
Debt in­stru­ments
A debt in­stru­ment that meets the following two con­di­tions must be measured at amortised cost (net of any write down for im­pair­ment) unless the asset is des­ig­nated at FVTPL under the fair value option (see below):
[IFRS 9, paragraph 4.1.2]
Business model test: The objective of the entity's business model is to hold the financial asset to collect the con­trac­tual cash flows (rather than to sell the in­stru­ment prior to its con­trac­tual maturity to realise its fair value changes).
Cash flow char­ac­ter­is­tics test: The con­trac­tual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount out­stand­ing.
Assessing the cash flow char­ac­ter­is­tics also includes an analysis of changes in the timing or in the amount of payments. It is necessary to assess whether the cash flows before and after the change represent only re­pay­ments of the nominal amount and an interest rate based on them.
The right of ter­mi­na­tion may for example be in ac­cor­dance with the cash flow condition if, in the case of ter­mi­na­tion, the only out­stand­ing payments consist of principal and interest on the principal amount and an ap­pro­pri­ate com­pen­sa­tion payment where ap­plic­a­ble. In October 2017, the IASB clarified that the com­pen­sa­tion payments can also have a negative sign.*
*Pre­pay­ment Features with Negative Com­pen­sa­tion (Amend­ments to IFRS 9); to be applied ret­ro­spec­tively for fiscal years beginning on or after 1 January 2019; early ap­pli­ca­tion permitted
A debt in­stru­ment that meets the following two con­di­tions must be measured at FVTOCI unless the asset is des­ig­nated at FVTPL under the fair value option (see below):
[IFRS 9, paragraph 4.1.2A]
Business model test: The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both col­lect­ing con­trac­tual cash flows and selling financial assets.
Cash flow char­ac­ter­is­tics test: The con­trac­tual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount out­stand­ing.
All other debt in­stru­ments must be measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.1.4]
Fair value option
Even if an in­stru­ment meets the two re­quire­ments to be measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI, IFRS 9 contains an option to designate, at initial recog­ni­tion, a financial asset as measured at FVTPL if doing so elim­i­nates or sig­nif­i­cantly reduces a mea­sure­ment or recog­ni­tion in­con­sis­tency (sometimes referred to as an 'accounting mismatch') that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or li­a­bil­i­ties or recog­nis­ing the gains and losses on them on different bases. [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.1.5]
Equity in­stru­ments
All equity in­vest­ments in scope of IFRS 9 are to be measured at fair value in the statement of financial position, with value changes recog­nised in profit or loss, except for those equity in­vest­ments for which the entity has elected to present value changes in 'other com­pre­hen­sive income'. There is no 'cost exception' for unquoted equities.
'Other com­pre­hen­sive income' option
If an equity in­vest­ment is not held for trading, an entity can make an ir­rev­o­ca­ble election at initial recog­ni­tion to measure it at FVTOCI with only dividend income recog­nised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9, paragraph 5.7.5]
Mea­sure­ment guidance
Despite the fair value re­quire­ment for all equity in­vest­ments, IFRS 9 contains guidance on when cost may be the best estimate of fair value and also when it might not be rep­re­sen­ta­tive of fair value.
Sub­se­quent mea­sure­ment of financial li­a­bil­i­ties
IFRS 9 doesn't change the basic accounting model for financial li­a­bil­i­ties under IAS 39. Two mea­sure­ment cat­e­gories continue to exist: FVTPL and amortised cost. Financial li­a­bil­i­ties held for trading are measured at FVTPL, and all other financial li­a­bil­i­ties are measured at amortised cost unless the fair value option is applied. [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.2.1]
Fair value option
IFRS 9 contains an option to designate a financial liability as measured at FVTPL if [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.2.2]:
doing so elim­i­nates or sig­nif­i­cantly reduces a mea­sure­ment or recog­ni­tion in­con­sis­tency (sometimes referred to as an 'accounting mismatch') that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or li­a­bil­i­ties or recog­nis­ing the gains and losses on them on different bases, or
the liability is part or a group of financial li­a­bil­i­ties or financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties that is managed and its per­for­mance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in ac­cor­dance with a doc­u­mented risk man­age­ment or in­vest­ment strategy, and in­for­ma­tion about the group is provided in­ter­nally on that basis to the entity's key man­age­ment personnel.
A financial liability which does not meet any of these criteria may still be des­ig­nated as measured at FVTPL when it contains one or more embedded de­riv­a­tives that suf­fi­ciently modify the cash flows of the liability and are not clearly closely related. [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.3.5]
IFRS 9 requires gains and losses on financial li­a­bil­i­ties des­ig­nated as at FVTPL to be split into the amount of change in fair value at­trib­ut­able to changes in credit risk of the liability, presented in other com­pre­hen­sive income, and the remaining amount presented in profit or loss. The new guidance allows the recog­ni­tion of the full amount of change in the fair value in profit or loss only if the pre­sen­ta­tion of changes in the liability's credit risk in other com­pre­hen­sive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. That de­ter­mi­na­tion is made at initial recog­ni­tion and is not re­assessed. [IFRS 9, para­graphs 5.7.7-5.7.8]
Amounts presented in other com­pre­hen­sive income shall not be sub­se­quently trans­ferred to profit or loss, the entity may only transfer the cu­mu­la­tive gain or loss within equity.
Dere­cog­ni­tion of financial assets
The basic premise for the dere­cog­ni­tion model in IFRS 9 (carried over from IAS 39) is to determine whether the asset under con­sid­er­a­tion for dere­cog­ni­tion is: [IFRS 9, paragraph 3.2.2]
an asset in its entirety or
specif­i­cally iden­ti­fied cash flows from an asset (or a group of similar financial assets) or
a fully pro­por­tion­ate (pro rata) share of the cash flows from an asset (or a group of similar financial assets). or
a fully pro­por­tion­ate (pro rata) share of specif­i­cally iden­ti­fied cash flows from a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets)
Once the asset under con­sid­er­a­tion for dere­cog­ni­tion has been de­ter­mined, an as­sess­ment is made as to whether the asset has been trans­ferred, and if so, whether the transfer of that asset is sub­se­quently eligible for dere­cog­ni­tion.
An asset is trans­ferred if either the entity has trans­ferred the con­trac­tual rights to receive the cash flows, or the entity has retained the con­trac­tual rights to receive the cash flows from the asset, but has assumed a con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion to pass those cash flows on under an arrange­ment that meets the following three con­di­tions: [IFRS 9, para­graphs 3.2.4-3.2.5]
the entity has no oblig­a­tion to pay amounts to the eventual recipient unless it collects equiv­a­lent amounts on the original asset
the entity is pro­hib­ited from selling or pledging the original asset (other than as security to the eventual recipient),
the entity has an oblig­a­tion to remit those cash flows without material delay
Once an entity has de­ter­mined that the asset has been trans­ferred, it then de­ter­mines whether or not it has trans­ferred sub­stan­tially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. If sub­stan­tially all the risks and rewards have been trans­ferred, the asset is dere­cog­nised. If sub­stan­tially all the risks and rewards have been retained, dere­cog­ni­tion of the asset is precluded. [IFRS 9, para­graphs 3.2.6(a)-(b)]
If the entity has neither retained nor trans­ferred sub­stan­tially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, then the entity must assess whether it has re­lin­quished control of the asset or not. If the entity does not control the asset then dere­cog­ni­tion is ap­pro­pri­ate; however if the entity has retained control of the asset, then the entity continues to recognise the asset to the extent to which it has a con­tin­u­ing in­volve­ment in the asset. [IFRS 9, paragraph 3.2.6(c)]
These various dere­cog­ni­tion steps are sum­marised in the decision tree in paragraph B3.2.1.
Dere­cog­ni­tion of financial li­a­bil­i­ties
A financial liability should be removed from the balance sheet when, and only when, it is ex­tin­guished, that is, when the oblig­a­tion specified in the contract is either dis­charged or cancelled or expires. [IFRS 9, paragraph 3.3.1] Where there has been an exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt in­stru­ments with sub­stan­tially different terms, or there has been a sub­stan­tial mod­i­fi­ca­tion of the terms of an existing financial liability, this trans­ac­tion is accounted for as an ex­tin­guish­ment of the original financial liability and the recog­ni­tion of a new financial liability. A gain or loss from ex­tin­guish­ment of the original financial liability is recog­nised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9, para­graphs 3.3.2-3.3.3]
De­riv­a­tives
All de­riv­a­tives in scope of IFRS 9, including those linked to unquoted equity in­vest­ments, are measured at fair value. Value changes are recog­nised in profit or loss unless the entity has elected to apply hedge accounting by des­ig­nat­ing the de­riv­a­tive as a hedging in­stru­ment in an eligible hedging re­la­tion­ship.
Embedded de­riv­a­tives
An embedded de­riv­a­tive is a component of a hybrid contract that also includes a non-de­riv­a­tive host, with the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined in­stru­ment vary in a way similar to a stand-alone de­riv­a­tive. A de­riv­a­tive that is attached to a financial in­stru­ment but is con­trac­tu­ally trans­fer­able in­de­pen­dently of that in­stru­ment, or has a different coun­ter­party, is not an embedded de­riv­a­tive, but a separate financial in­stru­ment. [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.3.1]
The embedded de­riv­a­tive concept that existed in IAS 39 has been included in IFRS 9 to apply only to hosts that are not financial assets within the scope of the Standard. Con­se­quently, embedded de­riv­a­tives that under IAS 39 would have been sep­a­rately accounted for at FVTPL because they were not closely related to the host financial asset will no longer be separated. Instead, the con­trac­tual cash flows of the financial asset are assessed in their entirety, and the asset as a whole is measured at FVTPL if the con­trac­tual cash flow char­ac­ter­is­tics test is not passed (see above).
The embedded de­riv­a­tive guidance that existed in IAS 39 is included in IFRS 9 to help preparers identify when an embedded de­riv­a­tive is closely related to a financial liability host contract or a host contract not within the scope of the Standard (e.g. leasing contracts, insurance contracts, contracts for the purchase or sale of a non-fi­nan­cial items).
Re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion
For financial assets, re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion is required between FVTPL, FVTOCI and amortised cost, if and only if the entity's business model objective for its financial assets changes so its previous model as­sess­ment would no longer apply. [IFRS 9, paragraph 4.4.1]
If re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion is ap­pro­pri­ate, it must be done prospec­tively from the re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion date which is defined as the first day of the first reporting period following the change in business model. An entity does not restate any pre­vi­ously recog­nised gains, losses, or interest.
IFRS 9 does not allow re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion:
for equity in­vest­ments measured at FVTOCI, or
where the fair value option has been exercised in any cir­cum­stance for a financial assets or financial liability.
Hedge accounting
The hedge accounting re­quire­ments in IFRS 9 are optional. If certain el­i­gi­bil­ity and qual­i­fi­ca­tion criteria are met, hedge accounting allows an entity to reflect risk man­age­ment ac­tiv­i­ties in the financial state­ments by matching gains or losses on financial hedging in­stru­ments with losses or gains on the risk exposures they hedge.
The hedge accounting model in IFRS 9 is not designed to ac­com­mo­date hedging of open, dynamic port­fo­lios. As a result, for a fair value hedge of interest rate risk of a portfolio of financial assets or li­a­bil­i­ties an entity can apply the hedge accounting re­quire­ments in IAS 39 instead of those in IFRS 9. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.1.3]
In addition when an entity first applies IFRS 9, it may choose as its accounting policy choice to continue to apply the hedge accounting re­quire­ments of IAS 39 instead of the re­quire­ments of Chapter 6 of IFRS 9 [IFRS 9 paragraph 7.2.21]
Qual­i­fy­ing criteria for hedge accounting
A hedging re­la­tion­ship qualifies for hedge accounting only if all of the following criteria are met:
the hedging re­la­tion­ship consists only of eligible hedging in­stru­ments and eligible hedged items.
at the inception of the hedging re­la­tion­ship there is formal des­ig­na­tion and doc­u­men­ta­tion of the hedging re­la­tion­ship and the entity’s risk man­age­ment objective and strategy for un­der­tak­ing the hedge.
the hedging re­la­tion­ship meets all of the hedge ef­fec­tive­ness re­quire­ments (see below) [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.4.1]
Hedging in­stru­ments
Only contracts with a party external to the reporting entity may be des­ig­nated as hedging in­stru­ments. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.2.3]
A hedging in­stru­ment may be a de­riv­a­tive (except for some written options) or non-de­riv­a­tive financial in­stru­ment measured at FVTPL unless it is a financial liability des­ig­nated as at FVTPL for which changes due to credit risk are presented in OCI. For a hedge of foreign currency risk, the foreign currency risk component of a non-de­riv­a­tive financial in­stru­ment, except equity in­vest­ments des­ig­nated as FVTOCI, may be des­ig­nated as the hedging in­stru­ment. [IFRS 9 para­graphs 6.2.1-6.2.2]
IFRS 9 allows a pro­por­tion (e.g. 60%) but not a time portion (eg the first 6 years of cash flows of a 10 year in­stru­ment) of a hedging in­stru­ment to be des­ig­nated as the hedging in­stru­ment. IFRS 9 also allows only the intrinsic value of an option, or the spot element of a forward to be des­ig­nated as the hedging in­stru­ment.  An entity may also exclude the foreign currency basis spread from a des­ig­nated hedging in­stru­ment. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.2.4]
IFRS 9 allows com­bi­na­tions of de­riv­a­tives and non-de­riv­a­tives to be des­ig­nated as the hedging in­stru­ment. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.2.5]
Com­bi­na­tions of purchased and written options do not qualify if they amount to a net written option at the date of des­ig­na­tion. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.2.6]
Hedged items
A hedged item can be a recog­nised asset or liability, an un­recog­nised firm com­mit­ment, a highly probable forecast trans­ac­tion or a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation and must be reliably mea­sur­able. [IFRS 9 para­graphs 6.3.1-6.3.3]
An ag­gre­gated exposure that is a com­bi­na­tion of an eligible hedged item as described above and a de­riv­a­tive may be des­ig­nated as a hedged item. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.3.4]
The hedged item must generally be with a party external to the reporting entity, however, as an exception the foreign currency risk of an in­tra­group monetary item may qualify as a hedged item in the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments if it results in an exposure to foreign exchange rate gains or losses that are not fully elim­i­nated on con­sol­i­da­tion. In addition, the foreign currency risk of a highly probable forecast in­tra­group trans­ac­tion may qualify as a hedged item in con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments provided that the trans­ac­tion is de­nom­i­nated in a currency other than the func­tional currency of the entity entering into that trans­ac­tion and the foreign currency risk will affect con­sol­i­dated profit or loss. [IFRS 9 para­graphs 6.3.5 -6.3.6]
An entity may designate an item in its entirety or a component of an item as the hedged item. The component may be a risk component that is sep­a­rately iden­ti­fi­able and reliably mea­sur­able; one or more selected con­trac­tual cash flows; or com­po­nents of a nominal amount. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.3.7]
A group of items (including net positions is an eligible hedged item only if:
it consists of items in­di­vid­u­ally, eligible hedged items;
the items in the group are managed together on a group basis for risk man­age­ment purposes; and
in the case of a cash flow hedge of a group of items whose vari­abil­i­ties in cash flows are not expected to be ap­prox­i­mately pro­por­tional to the overall vari­abil­ity in cash flows of the group:
it is a hedge of foreign currency risk; and
the des­ig­na­tion of that net position specifies the reporting period in which the forecast trans­ac­tions are expected to affect profit or loss, as well as their nature and volume [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.6.1]
For a hedge of a net position whose hedged risk affects different line items in the statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income, any hedging gains or losses in that statement are presented in a separate line from those affected by the hedged items. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.6.4]
Accounting for qual­i­fy­ing hedging re­la­tion­ships
There are three types of hedging re­la­tion­ships:
Fair value hedge: a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recog­nised asset or liability or an un­recog­nised firm com­mit­ment, or a component of any such item, that is at­trib­ut­able to a par­tic­u­lar risk and could affect profit or loss (or OCI in the case of an equity in­stru­ment des­ig­nated as at FVTOCI). [IFRS 9 para­graphs 6.5.2(a) and 6.5.3]
For a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment is recog­nised in profit or loss (or OCI, if hedging an equity in­stru­ment at FVTOCI and the hedging gain or loss on the hedged item adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is recog­nised in profit or loss. However, if the hedged item is an equity in­stru­ment at FVTOCI, those amounts remain in OCI. When a hedged item is an un­recog­nised firm com­mit­ment the cu­mu­la­tive hedging gain or loss is recog­nised as an asset or a liability with a cor­re­spond­ing gain or loss recog­nised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.8]
If the hedged item is a debt in­stru­ment measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI any hedge ad­just­ment is amortised to profit or loss based on a re­cal­cu­lated effective interest rate. Amor­ti­sa­tion may begin as soon as an ad­just­ment exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.10]
Cash flow hedge: a hedge of the exposure to vari­abil­ity in cash flows that is at­trib­ut­able to a par­tic­u­lar risk as­so­ci­ated with all, or a component of, a recog­nised asset or liability (such as all or some future interest payments on vari­able-rate debt) or a highly probable forecast trans­ac­tion, and could affect profit or loss. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.2(b)]
For a cash flow hedge the cash flow hedge reserve in equity is adjusted to the lower of the following (in absolute amounts):
the cu­mu­la­tive gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment from inception of the hedge; and
the cu­mu­la­tive change in fair value of the hedged item from inception of the hedge.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment that is de­ter­mined to be an effective hedge is recog­nised in OCI and any remaining gain or loss is hedge in­ef­fec­tive­ness that is recog­nised in profit or loss.
If a hedged forecast trans­ac­tion sub­se­quently results in the recog­ni­tion of a non-fi­nan­cial item or becomes a firm com­mit­ment for which fair value hedge accounting is applied, the amount that has been ac­cu­mu­lated in the cash flow hedge reserve is removed and included directly in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the asset or the liability. In other cases the amount that has been ac­cu­mu­lated in the cash flow hedge reserve is re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss in the same period(s) as the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.11]
When an entity dis­con­tin­ues hedge accounting for a cash flow hedge, if the hedged future cash flows are still expected to occur, the amount that has been ac­cu­mu­lated in the cash flow hedge reserve remains there until the future cash flows occur; if the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, that amount is im­me­di­ately re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.12]
A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm com­mit­ment may be accounted for as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.4]
Hedge of a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation (as defined in IAS 21), including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net in­vest­ment, is accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges:
the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment that is de­ter­mined to be an effective hedge is recog­nised in OCI; and
the in­ef­fec­tive portion is recog­nised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.13]
The cu­mu­la­tive gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment relating to the effective portion of the hedge is re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.14]
Hedge ef­fec­tive­ness re­quire­ments
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge re­la­tion­ship must meet the following ef­fec­tive­ness criteria at the beginning of each hedged period:
there is an economic re­la­tion­ship between the hedged item and the hedging in­stru­ment;
the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic re­la­tion­ship; and
the hedge ratio of the hedging re­la­tion­ship is the same as that actually used in the economic hedge [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.4.1(c)]
Re­bal­anc­ing and dis­con­tin­u­a­tion
If a hedging re­la­tion­ship ceases to meet the hedge ef­fec­tive­ness re­quire­ment relating to the hedge ratio but the risk man­age­ment objective for that des­ig­nated hedging re­la­tion­ship remains the same, an entity adjusts the hedge ratio of the hedging re­la­tion­ship (i.e. re­bal­ances the hedge) so that it meets the qual­i­fy­ing criteria again. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.5]
An entity dis­con­tin­ues hedge accounting prospec­tively only when the hedging re­la­tion­ship (or a part of a hedging re­la­tion­ship) ceases to meet the qual­i­fy­ing criteria (after any re­bal­anc­ing). This includes instances when the hedging in­stru­ment expires or is sold, ter­mi­nated or exercised. Dis­con­tin­u­ing hedge accounting can either affect a hedging re­la­tion­ship in its entirety or only a part of it (in which case hedge accounting continues for the remainder of the hedging re­la­tion­ship). [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.6]
Time value of options
When an entity separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract and des­ig­nates as the hedging in­stru­ment only the change in intrinsic value of the option, it recog­nises some or all of the change in the time value in OCI which is later removed or re­clas­si­fied from equity as a single amount or on an amortised basis (depending on the nature of the hedged item) and ul­ti­mately recog­nised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.15] This reduces profit or loss volatil­ity compared to recog­nis­ing the change in value of time value directly in profit or loss.
Forward points and foreign currency basis spreads
When an entity separates the forward points and the spot element of a forward contract and des­ig­nates as the hedging in­stru­ment only the change in the value of the spot element, or when an entity excludes the foreign currency basis spread from a hedge the entity may recognise the change in value of the excluded portion in OCI to be later removed or re­clas­si­fied from equity as a single amount or on an amortised basis  (depending on the nature of the hedged item) and ul­ti­mately recog­nised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.16] This reduces profit or loss volatil­ity compared to recog­nis­ing the change in value of forward points or currency basis spreads directly in profit or loss.
Credit exposures des­ig­nated at FVTPL
If an entity uses a credit de­riv­a­tive measured at FVTPL to manage the credit risk of a financial in­stru­ment (credit exposure) it may designate all or a pro­por­tion of that financial in­stru­ment as measured at FVTPL if:
the name of the credit exposure matches the reference entity of the credit de­riv­a­tive (‘name matching’); and
the seniority of the financial in­stru­ment matches that of the in­stru­ments that can be delivered in ac­cor­dance with the credit de­riv­a­tive.
An entity may make this des­ig­na­tion ir­re­spec­tive of whether the financial in­stru­ment that is managed for credit risk is within the scope of IFRS 9 (for example, it can apply to loan com­mit­ments that are outside the scope of IFRS 9). The entity may designate that financial in­stru­ment at, or sub­se­quent to, initial recog­ni­tion, or while it is un­recog­nised and shall document the des­ig­na­tion con­cur­rently. [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.7.1]
If des­ig­nated after initial recog­ni­tion, any dif­fer­ence in the previous carrying amount and fair value is recog­nised im­me­di­ately in profit or loss [IFRS 9 paragraph 6.7.2]
An entity dis­con­tin­ues measuring the financial in­stru­ment that gave rise to the credit risk at FVTPL if the qual­i­fy­ing criteria are no longer met and the in­stru­ment is not otherwise required to be measured at FVTPL. The fair value at dis­con­tin­u­a­tion becomes its new carrying amount. [IFRS 9 para­graphs 6.7.3 and 6.7.4]
Im­pair­ment
The im­pair­ment model in IFRS 9 is based on the premise of providing for expected losses.
Scope
IFRS 9 requires that the same im­pair­ment model apply to all of the following:
[IFRS 9 paragraph 5.5.1]
Financial assets measured at amortised cost;
Financial assets manda­to­rily measured at FVTOCI;
Loan com­mit­ments when there is a present oblig­a­tion to extend credit (except where these are measured at FVTPL);
Financial guarantee contracts to which IFRS 9 is applied (except those measured at FVTPL);
Lease re­ceiv­ables within the scope of IAS 17 Leases; and
Contract assets within the scope of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (i.e. rights to con­sid­er­a­tion following transfer of goods or services).
General approach
With the exception of purchased or orig­i­nated credit impaired financial assets (see below), expected credit losses are required to be measured through a loss allowance at an amount equal to:
[IFRS 9 para­graphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5]
the 12-month expected credit losses (expected credit losses that result from those default events on the financial in­stru­ment that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date); or
full lifetime expected credit losses (expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the life of the financial in­stru­ment).
A loss allowance for full lifetime expected credit losses is required for a financial in­stru­ment if the credit risk of that financial in­stru­ment has increased sig­nif­i­cantly since initial recog­ni­tion, as well as to contract assets or trade re­ceiv­ables that do not con­sti­tute a financing trans­ac­tion in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 15. [IFRS 9 para­graphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.15]
Ad­di­tion­ally, entities can elect an accounting policy to recognise full lifetime expected losses for all contract assets and/or all trade re­ceiv­ables that do con­sti­tute a financing trans­ac­tion in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 15. The same election is also sep­a­rately permitted for lease re­ceiv­ables. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.5.16]
For all other financial in­stru­ments, expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-month expected credit losses. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.5.5]
Sig­nif­i­cant increase in credit risk
With the exception of purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial assets (see below), the loss allowance for financial in­stru­ments is measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected losses if the credit risk of a financial in­stru­ment has increased sig­nif­i­cantly since initial recog­ni­tion, unless the credit risk of the financial in­stru­ment is low at the reporting date in which case it can be assumed that credit risk on the financial in­stru­ment has not increased sig­nif­i­cantly since initial recog­ni­tion. [IFRS 9 para­graphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.10]
The Standard considers credit risk low if there is a low risk of default, the borrower has a strong capacity to meet its con­trac­tual cash flow oblig­a­tions in the near term and adverse changes in economic and business con­di­tions in the longer term may, but will not nec­es­sar­ily, reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil its con­trac­tual cash flow oblig­a­tions. The Standard suggests that ‘in­vest­ment grade’ rating might be an indicator for a low credit risk. [IFRS 9 para­graphs B5.5.22 – B5.5.24]
The as­sess­ment of whether there has been a sig­nif­i­cant increase in credit risk is based on an increase in the prob­a­bil­ity of a default occurring since initial recog­ni­tion. Under the Standard, an entity may use various ap­proaches to assess whether credit risk has increased sig­nif­i­cantly (provided that the approach is con­sis­tent with the re­quire­ments). An approach can be con­sis­tent with the re­quire­ments even if it does not include an explicit prob­a­bil­ity of default occurring as an input. The ap­pli­ca­tion guidance provides a list of factors that may assist an entity in making the as­sess­ment. Also, whilst in principle the as­sess­ment of whether a loss allowance should be based on lifetime expected credit losses is to be made on an in­di­vid­ual basis, some factors or in­di­ca­tors might not be available at an in­stru­ment level. In this case, the entity should perform the as­sess­ment on ap­pro­pri­ate groups or portions of a portfolio of financial in­stru­ments.
The re­quire­ments also contain a re­but­table pre­sump­tion that the credit risk has increased sig­nif­i­cantly when con­trac­tual payments are more than 30 days past due. IFRS 9 also requires that (other than for purchased or orig­i­nated credit impaired financial in­stru­ments) if a sig­nif­i­cant increase in credit risk that had taken place since initial recog­ni­tion and has reversed by a sub­se­quent reporting period (i.e., cu­mu­la­tively credit risk is not sig­nif­i­cantly higher than at initial recog­ni­tion) then the expected credit losses on the financial in­stru­ment revert to being measured based on an amount equal to the 12-month expected credit losses. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.5.11]
Purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial assets
Purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial assets are treated dif­fer­ently because the asset is credit-im­paired at initial recog­ni­tion. For these assets, an entity would recognise changes in lifetime expected losses since initial recog­ni­tion as a loss allowance with any changes recog­nised in profit or loss. Under the re­quire­ments, any favourable changes for such assets are an im­pair­ment gain even if the resulting expected cash flows of a financial asset exceed the estimated cash flows on initial recog­ni­tion. [IFRS 9 para­graphs 5.5.13 – 5.5.14]
Credit-im­paired financial asset
Under IFRS 9 a financial asset is credit-im­paired when one or more events that have occurred and have a sig­nif­i­cant impact on the expected future cash flows of the financial asset. It includes ob­serv­able data that has come to the attention of the holder of a financial asset about the following events:
[IFRS 9 Appendix A]
sig­nif­i­cant financial dif­fi­culty of the issuer or borrower;
a breach of contract, such as a default or past-due event;
the lenders for economic or con­trac­tual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial dif­fi­culty granted the borrower a con­ces­sion that would not otherwise be con­sid­ered;
it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bank­ruptcy or other financial re­or­gan­i­sa­tion;
the dis­ap­pear­ance of an active market for the financial asset because of financial dif­fi­cul­ties; or
the purchase or orig­i­na­tion of a financial asset at a deep discount that reflects incurred credit losses.
Basis for es­ti­mat­ing expected credit losses
Any mea­sure­ment of expected credit losses under IFRS 9 shall reflect an unbiased and prob­a­bil­ity-weighted amount that is de­ter­mined by eval­u­at­ing the range of possible outcomes as well as in­cor­po­rat­ing the time value of money. Also, the entity should consider rea­son­able and sup­port­able in­for­ma­tion about past events, current con­di­tions and rea­son­able and sup­port­able forecasts of future economic con­di­tions when measuring expected credit losses. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.5.17]
The Standard defines expected credit losses as the weighted average of credit losses with the re­spec­tive risks of a default occurring as the weight­ings. [IFRS 9 Appendix A] Whilst an entity does not need to consider every possible scenario, it must consider the risk or prob­a­bil­ity that a credit loss occurs by con­sid­er­ing the pos­si­bil­ity that a credit loss occurs and the pos­si­bil­ity that no credit loss occurs, even if the prob­a­bil­ity of a credit loss occurring is low. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.5.18]
In par­tic­u­lar, for lifetime expected losses, an entity is required to estimate the risk of a default occurring on the financial in­stru­ment during its expected life. 12-month expected credit losses represent the lifetime cash short­falls that will result if a default occurs in the 12 months after the reporting date, weighted by the prob­a­bil­ity of that default occurring.
An entity is required to in­cor­po­rate rea­son­able and sup­port­able in­for­ma­tion (i.e., that which is rea­son­ably available at the reporting date). In­for­ma­tion is rea­son­ably available if obtaining it does not involve undue cost or effort (with in­for­ma­tion available for financial reporting purposes qual­i­fy­ing as such).
For applying the model to a loan com­mit­ment an entity will consider the risk of a default occurring under the loan to be advanced, whilst ap­pli­ca­tion of the model for financial guarantee contracts an entity considers the risk of a default occurring of the specified debtor.  [IFRS 9 para­graphs B5.5.31 and B5.5.32]
An entity may use practical ex­pe­di­ents when es­ti­mat­ing expected credit losses if they are con­sis­tent with the prin­ci­ples in the Standard (for example, expected credit losses on trade re­ceiv­ables may be cal­cu­lated using a provision matrix where a fixed provision rate applies depending on the number of days that a trade re­ceiv­able is out­stand­ing). [IFRS 9 paragraph B5.5.35]
To reflect time value, expected losses should be dis­counted to the reporting date using the effective interest rate of the asset (or an ap­prox­i­ma­tion thereof) that was de­ter­mined at initial recog­ni­tion. A “credit-ad­justed effective interest” rate should be used for expected credit losses of purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial assets.  In contrast to the “effective interest rate” (cal­cu­lated using expected cash flows that ignore expected credit losses), the credit-ad­justed effective interest rate reflects expected credit losses of the financial asset. [IFRS 9 para­graphs B5.5.44-45]
Expected credit losses of undrawn loan com­mit­ments should be dis­counted by using the effective interest rate (or an ap­prox­i­ma­tion thereof) that will be applied when recog­nis­ing the financial asset resulting from the com­mit­ment. If the effective interest rate of a loan com­mit­ment cannot be de­ter­mined, the discount rate should reflect the current market as­sess­ment of time value of money and the risks that are specific to the cash flows but only if, and to the extent that, such risks are not taken into account by adjusting the discount rate. This approach shall also be used to discount expected credit losses of financial guarantee contracts. [IFRS 9 para­graphs B5.5.47]
Pre­sen­ta­tion
Whilst interest revenue is always required to be presented as a separate line item, it is cal­cu­lated dif­fer­ently according to the status of the asset with regard to credit im­pair­ment. In the case of a financial asset that is not a purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial asset and for which there is no objective evidence of im­pair­ment at the reporting date, interest revenue is cal­cu­lated by applying the effective interest rate method to the gross carrying amount. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.4.1]
In the case of a financial asset that is not a purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial asset but sub­se­quently has become credit-im­paired, interest revenue is cal­cu­lated by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost balance, which comprises the gross carrying amount adjusted for any loss allowance. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.4.1]
In the case of purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial assets, interest revenue is always recog­nised by applying the credit-ad­justed effective interest rate to the amortised cost carrying amount. [IFRS 9 paragraph 5.4.1] The credit-ad­justed effective interest rate is the rate that discounts the cash flows expected on initial recog­ni­tion (ex­plic­itly taking account of expected credit losses as well as con­trac­tual terms of the in­stru­ment) back to the amortised cost at initial recog­ni­tion. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]
Con­se­quen­tial amend­ments of IFRS 9 to IAS 1 require that im­pair­ment losses, including reversals of im­pair­ment losses and im­pair­ment gains (in the case of purchased or orig­i­nated credit-im­paired financial assets), are presented in a separate line item in the statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income.
Dis­clo­sures
IFRS 9 amends some of the re­quire­ments of IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures including adding dis­clo­sures about in­vest­ments in equity in­stru­ments des­ig­nated as at FVTOCI, dis­clo­sures on risk man­age­ment ac­tiv­i­ties and hedge accounting and dis­clo­sures on credit risk man­age­ment and im­pair­ment.
In­ter­ac­tion with IFRS 4
On 12 September 2016, the IASB issued amend­ments to IFRS 4 providing two options for entities that issue insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4:
an option that permits entities to re­clas­sify, from profit or loss to other com­pre­hen­sive income, some of the income or expenses arising from des­ig­nated financial assets; this is the so-called overlay approach;
an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 for entities whose pre­dom­i­nant activity is issuing contracts within the scope of IFRS 4; this is the so-called deferral approach.
An entity choosing to apply the overlay approach ret­ro­spec­tively to qual­i­fy­ing financial assets does so when it first applies IFRS 9. An entity choosing to apply the deferral approach does so for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The ap­pli­ca­tion of both ap­proaches is optional and an entity is permitted to stop applying them before the new insurance contracts standard is applied.
IFRS 10 — Consolidated Financial Statements
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments outlines the re­quire­ments for the prepa­ra­tion and pre­sen­ta­tion of con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, requiring entities to con­sol­i­date entities it controls. Control requires exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability to affect those returns through power over an investee.
IFRS 10 was issued in May 2011 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IFRS 10
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
April 2002 Project on con­sol­i­da­tion added to the IASB's agenda (project history)
18 December 2008 ED 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments published Comment deadline 20 March 2009
29 September 2010 Staff draft of IFRS X Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments published
12 May 2011 IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments published Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
28 June 2012 Amended by Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments, Joint Arrange­ments and Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities: Tran­si­tion Guidance (project history) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
31 October 2012 Amended by In­vest­ment Entities (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) (project history) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
11 September 2014 Amended by Sale or Con­tri­bu­tion of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amend­ments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 deferred in­def­i­nitely (see below)
18 December 2014
Amended by In­vest­ment Entities: Applying the Con­sol­i­da­tion Exception (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) (project history)
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
17 December 2015
Amended by Effective Date of Amend­ments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28
defer the effective date of the September 2014 amend­ments to these standards in­def­i­nitely
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRS 10 su­per­seded SIC-12 Con­sol­i­da­tion – Special Purpose Entities
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Common control trans­ac­tions
IFRS 13 — Unit of account
In addition, the IASB has signalled an intention to conduct a post-im­ple­men­ta­tion review, com­menc­ing in 2016.
Pub­li­ca­tions and resources
IFRS in Focus Newslet­ter IASB issues new standard on con­sol­i­da­tion sum­maris­ing the re­quire­ments of IFRS 10 (PDF 82k, May 2011)
Deloitte IFRS Podcast (May 2011, 12 minutes, 8mb)
Effect analysis for IFRS 10 and IFRS 12 (link to IASB website)
Summary of IFRS 10
Objective
The objective of IFRS 10 is to establish prin­ci­ples for the pre­sen­ta­tion and prepa­ra­tion of con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments when an entity controls one or more other entities. [IFRS 10:1]
The Standard: [IFRS 10:1]
requires a parent entity (an entity that controls one or more other entities) to present con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments
defines the principle of control, and es­tab­lishes control as the basis for con­sol­i­da­tion
set out how to apply the principle of control to identify whether an investor controls an investee and therefore must con­sol­i­date the investee
sets out the accounting re­quire­ments for the prepa­ra­tion of con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments
defines an in­vest­ment entity and sets out an exception to con­sol­i­dat­ing par­tic­u­lar sub­sidiaries of an in­vest­ment entity*.
* Added by In­vest­ment Entities amend­ments, effective 1 January 2014.
  Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 10:Appendix A]
Con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments
The financial state­ments of a group in which the assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent and its sub­sidiaries are presented as those of a single economic entity
Control of an investee
An investor controls an investee when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its in­volve­ment with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee
In­vest­ment entity*
An entity that:
obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing those investor(s) with in­vest­ment man­age­ment services
commits to its investor(s) that its business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from capital ap­pre­ci­a­tion, in­vest­ment income, or both, and
measures and evaluates the per­for­mance of sub­stan­tially all of its in­vest­ments on a fair value basis.
Parent
An entity that controls one or more entities
Power
Existing rights that give the current ability to direct the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties
Pro­tec­tive rights
Rights designed to protect the interest of the party holding those rights without giving that party power over the entity to which those rights relate
Relevant ac­tiv­i­ties
Ac­tiv­i­ties of the investee that sig­nif­i­cantly affect the investee's returns
* Added by In­vest­ment Entities amend­ments, effective 1 January 2014.
  Control
An investor de­ter­mines whether it is a parent by assessing whether it controls one or more investees. An investor considers all relevant facts and cir­cum­stances when assessing whether it controls an investee. An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its in­volve­ment with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. [IFRS 10:5-6; IFRS 10:8]
An investor controls an investee if and only if the investor has all of the following elements: [IFRS 10:7]
power over the investee, i.e. the investor has existing rights that give it the ability to direct the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties (the ac­tiv­i­ties that sig­nif­i­cantly affect the investee's returns)
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its in­volve­ment with the investee
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor's returns.
Power arises from rights. Such rights can be straight­for­ward (e.g. through voting rights) or be complex (e.g. embedded in con­trac­tual arrange­ments). An investor that holds only pro­tec­tive rights cannot have power over an investee and so cannot control an investee [IFRS 10:11, IFRS 10:14].
An investor must be exposed, or have rights, to variable returns from its in­volve­ment with an investee to control the investee. Such returns must have the potential to vary as a result of the investee's per­for­mance and can be positive, negative, or both. [IFRS 10:15]
A parent must not only have power over an investee and exposure or rights to variable returns from its in­volve­ment with the investee, a parent must also have the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns from its in­volve­ment with the investee. [IFRS 10:17].
When assessing whether an investor controls an investee an investor with de­ci­sion-mak­ing rights de­ter­mines whether it acts as principal or as an agent of other parties. A number of factors are con­sid­ered in making this as­sess­ment. For instance, the re­mu­ner­a­tion of the de­ci­sion-maker is con­sid­ered in de­ter­min­ing whether it is an agent. [IFRS 10:B58, IFRS 10:B60]
Accounting re­quire­ments
Prepa­ra­tion of con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments
A parent prepares con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments using uniform accounting policies for like trans­ac­tions and other events in similar cir­cum­stances. [IFRS 10:19]
However, a parent need not present con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments if it meets all of the following con­di­tions: [IFRS 10:4(a)]
it is a wholly-owned sub­sidiary or is a par­tially-owned sub­sidiary of another entity and its other owners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to, the parent not pre­sent­ing con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments
its debt or equity in­stru­ments are not traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock exchange or an over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets)
it did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial state­ments with a se­cu­ri­ties com­mis­sion or other reg­u­la­tory organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of in­stru­ments in a public market, and
its ultimate or any in­ter­me­di­ate parent of the parent produces financial state­ments available for public use that comply with IFRSs, in which sub­sidiaries are con­sol­i­dated or are measured at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 10.*
* Fair value mea­sure­ment clause added by In­vest­ment Entities: Applying the Con­sol­i­da­tion Exception (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) amend­ments, effective 1 January 2016.
In­vest­ment entities are pro­hib­ited from con­sol­i­dat­ing par­tic­u­lar sub­sidiaries (see further in­for­ma­tion below).
Fur­ther­more, post-em­ploy­ment benefit plans or other long-term employee benefit plans to which IAS 19 Employee Benefits applies are not required to apply the re­quire­ments of IFRS 10. [IFRS 10:4B]
Con­sol­i­da­tion pro­ce­dures
Con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments: [IFRS 10:B86]
combine like items of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with those of its sub­sidiaries
offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent's in­vest­ment in each sub­sidiary and the parent's portion of equity of each sub­sidiary (IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions explains how to account for any related goodwill)
eliminate in full in­tra­group assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to trans­ac­tions between entities of the group (profits or losses resulting from in­tra­group trans­ac­tions that are recog­nised in assets, such as inventory and fixed assets, are elim­i­nated in full).
A reporting entity includes the income and expenses of a sub­sidiary in the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments from the date it gains control until the date when the reporting entity ceases to control the sub­sidiary. Income and expenses of the sub­sidiary are based on the amounts of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties recog­nised in the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments at the ac­qui­si­tion date. [IFRS 10:B88]
The parent and sub­sidiaries are required to have the same reporting dates, or con­sol­i­da­tion based on ad­di­tional financial in­for­ma­tion prepared by sub­sidiary, unless im­prac­ti­ca­ble. Where im­prac­ti­ca­ble, the most recent financial state­ments of the sub­sidiary are used, adjusted for the effects of sig­nif­i­cant trans­ac­tions or events between the reporting dates of the sub­sidiary and con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments. The dif­fer­ence between the date of the sub­sidiary's financial state­ments and that of the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments shall be no more than three months [IFRS 10:B92, IFRS 10:B93]
Non-con­trol­ling interests (NCIs)
A parent presents non-con­trol­ling interests in its con­sol­i­dated statement of financial position within equity, sep­a­rately from the equity of the owners of the parent. [IFRS 10:22]
A reporting entity at­trib­utes the profit or loss and each component of other com­pre­hen­sive income to the owners of the parent and to the non-con­trol­ling interests. The pro­por­tion allocated to the parent and non-con­trol­ling interests are de­ter­mined on the basis of present ownership interests. [IFRS 10:B94, IFRS 10:B89]
The reporting entity also at­trib­utes total com­pre­hen­sive income to the owners of the parent and to the non-con­trol­ling interests even if this results in the non-con­trol­ling interests having a deficit balance. [IFRS 10:B94]
Changes in ownership interests
Changes in a parent's ownership interest in a sub­sidiary that do not result in the parent losing control of the sub­sidiary are equity trans­ac­tions (i.e. trans­ac­tions with owners in their capacity as owners). When the pro­por­tion of the equity held by non-con­trol­ling interests changes, the carrying amounts of the con­trol­ling and non-con­trol­ling interests area adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the sub­sidiary. Any dif­fer­ence between the amount by which the non-con­trol­ling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the con­sid­er­a­tion paid or received is recog­nised directly in equity and at­trib­uted to the owners of the parent.[IFRS 10:23, IFRS 10:B96]
If a parent loses control of a sub­sidiary, the parent [IFRS 10:25]:
dere­cog­nises the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of the former sub­sidiary from the con­sol­i­dated statement of financial position
recog­nises any in­vest­ment retained in the former sub­sidiary when control is lost and sub­se­quently accounts for it and for any amounts owed by or to the former sub­sidiary in ac­cor­dance with relevant IFRSs. That retained interest is re­mea­sured and the re­mea­sured value is regarded as the fair value on initial recog­ni­tion of a financial asset in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments or, when ap­pro­pri­ate, the cost on initial recog­ni­tion of an in­vest­ment in an associate or joint venture
recog­nises the gain or loss as­so­ci­ated with the loss of control at­trib­ut­able to the former con­trol­ling interest.
If a parent loses control of a sub­sidiary that does not contain a business in a trans­ac­tion with an associate or a joint venture gains or losses resulting from those trans­ac­tions are recog­nised in the parent's profit or loss only to the extent of the unrelated investors' interests in that associate or joint venture.*
* Added by Sale or Con­tri­bu­tion of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture amend­ments, effective 1 January 2016, however, the effective date of the amendment was later deferred in­def­i­nitely.
In­vest­ment entities con­sol­i­da­tion exemption
[Note: The in­vest­ment entity con­sol­i­da­tion exemption was in­tro­duced by In­vest­ment Entities, issued on 31 October 2012 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.]
IFRS 10 contains special accounting re­quire­ments for in­vest­ment entities. Where an entity meets the de­f­i­n­i­tion of an 'in­vest­ment entity' (see above), it does not con­sol­i­date its sub­sidiaries, or apply IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions when it obtains control of another entity.  [IFRS 10:31]
An entity is required to consider all facts and cir­cum­stances when assessing whether it is an in­vest­ment entity, including its purpose and design.  IFRS 10 provides that an in­vest­ment entity should have the following typical char­ac­ter­is­tics [IFRS 10:28]:
it has more than one in­vest­ment
it has more than one investor
it has investors that are not related parties of the entity
it has ownership interests in the form of equity or similar interests.
The absence of any of these typical char­ac­ter­is­tics does not nec­es­sar­ily dis­qual­ify an entity from being clas­si­fied as an in­vest­ment entity.
An in­vest­ment entity is required to measure an in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments or IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment. [IFRS 10:31]
However, an in­vest­ment entity is still required to con­sol­i­date a sub­sidiary where that sub­sidiary provides services that relate to the in­vest­ment entity’s in­vest­ment ac­tiv­i­ties. [IFRS 10:32]*
* In­vest­ment Entities: Applying the Con­sol­i­da­tion Exception (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) clarifies, effective 1 January 2016, that this relates to a sub­sidiary that is not itself an in­vest­ment entity and whose main purpose and ac­tiv­i­ties are providing services that relate to the in­vest­ment entity's in­vest­ment ac­tiv­i­ties.
Because an in­vest­ment entity is not required to con­sol­i­date its sub­sidiaries, in­tra­group related party trans­ac­tions and out­stand­ing balances are not elim­i­nated [IAS 24.4, IAS 39.80].
Special re­quire­ments apply where an entity becomes, or ceases to be, an in­vest­ment entity. [IFRS 10:B100-B101]
The exemption from con­sol­i­da­tion only applies to the in­vest­ment entity itself.  Ac­cord­ingly, a parent of an in­vest­ment entity is required to con­sol­i­date all entities that it controls, including those con­trolled through an in­vest­ment entity sub­sidiary, unless the parent itself is an in­vest­ment entity. [IFRS 10:33]
Dis­clo­sure
There are no dis­clo­sures specified in IFRS 10. Instead, IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities outlines the dis­clo­sures required.
Ap­plic­a­bil­ity and early adoption
Note: This section has been updated to reflect the amend­ments to IFRS 10 made in June 2012 and October 2012.
IFRS 10 is ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 [IFRS 10:C1].
Ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion is generally required in ac­cor­dance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors [IFRS 10:C2]. However, an entity is not required to make ad­just­ments to the accounting for its in­volve­ment with entities that were pre­vi­ously con­sol­i­dated and continue to be con­sol­i­dated, or entities that were pre­vi­ously un­con­sol­i­dated and continue not to be con­sol­i­dated at the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion of the IFRS [IFRS 10:C3].
Fur­ther­more, an entity is not required to present the quan­ti­ta­tive in­for­ma­tion required by paragraph 28(f) of IAS 8 for the annual period im­me­di­ately preceding the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion of the standard (the beginning of the annual reporting period for which IFRS 10 is first applied) [IFRS 10:C2A-C2B].  However, an entity may choose to present adjusted com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion for earlier reporting periods, any must clearly identify any un­ad­justed com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion and explain the basis on which the com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion has been prepared [IFRS 10.C6A-C6B].
IFRS 10 pre­scribes modified accounting on its first ap­pli­ca­tion in the following cir­cum­stances:
an entity con­sol­i­dates an entity not pre­vi­ously con­sol­i­dated [IFRS 10:C4-C4C]
an entity no longer con­sol­i­dates an entity that was pre­vi­ously con­sol­i­dated [IFRS 10:C5-C5A]
in relation to certain amend­ments to IAS 27 made in 2008 that have been carried forward into IFRS 10 [IFRS 10:C6].
An entity may apply IFRS 10 to an earlier accounting period, but if doing so it must disclose the fact that is has early adopted the standard and also apply:
IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments
IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (as amended in 2011)
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (as amended in 2011).
The amend­ments made by In­vest­ment Entities are ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 [IFRS 10:C1B].  At the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion of the amend­ments, an entity assesses whether it is an in­vest­ment entity on the basis of the facts and cir­cum­stances that exist at that date and ad­di­tional tran­si­tional pro­vi­sions apply [IFRS 10:C3B–C3F].
IFRS 11 — Joint Arrangements
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments outlines the accounting by entities that jointly control an arrange­ment. Joint control involves the con­trac­tu­ally agreed sharing of control and arrange­ments subject to joint control are clas­si­fied as either a joint venture (rep­re­sent­ing a share of net assets and equity accounted) or a joint operation (rep­re­sent­ing rights to assets and oblig­a­tions for li­a­bil­i­ties, accounted for ac­cord­ingly).
IFRS 11 was issued in May 2011 and applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.

History of IFRS 11
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
November 2004 Project on joint arrange­ments added to the IASB's agenda History of the project
13 September 2007 Exposure Draft ED 9 Joint Arrange­ments published Comment deadline 11 January 2008
12 May 2011 IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
28 June 2012 Amended by Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments, Joint Arrange­ments and Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities: Tran­si­tion Guidance Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
6 May 2014 Amended by Accounting for Ac­qui­si­tions of Interests in Joint Op­er­a­tions (Amend­ments to IFRS 11) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
12 December 2017 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Cycle. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRS 11 su­per­seded SIC-13 Jointly Con­trolled Entities - Non-Mon­e­tary Con­tri­bu­tions by Venturers
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
The IASB has signalled an intention to conduct a post-im­ple­men­ta­tion review of IFRS 11, com­menc­ing in 2016.
Pub­li­ca­tions and resources
IFRS in Focus Newslet­ter IASB issues new standard on joint arrange­ments sum­maris­ing the re­quire­ments of IFRS 11 (PDF 69k, May 2011)
Deloitte IFRS Podcast (May 2011, 10 minutes, 7mb)
Effect analysis for IFRS 11 (link to IASB website)
Summary of IFRS 11
Core principle
The core principle of IFRS 11 is that a party to a joint arrange­ment de­ter­mines the type of joint arrange­ment in which it is involved by assessing its rights and oblig­a­tions and accounts for those rights and oblig­a­tions in ac­cor­dance with that type of joint arrange­ment. [IFRS 11:1-2]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 11:Appendix A]
Joint arrange­ment
An arrange­ment of which two or more parties have joint control
Joint control
The con­trac­tu­ally agreed sharing of control of an arrange­ment, which exists only when decisions about the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control
Joint operation
A joint arrange­ment whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrange­ment have rights to the assets, and oblig­a­tions for the li­a­bil­i­ties, relating to the arrange­ment
Joint venture
A joint arrange­ment whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrange­ment have rights to the net assets of the arrange­ment
Joint venturer
A party to a joint venture that has joint control of that joint venture
Party to a joint arrange­ment
An entity that par­tic­i­pates in a joint arrange­ment, re­gard­less of whether that entity has joint control of the arrange­ment
Separate vehicle
A sep­a­rately iden­ti­fi­able financial structure, including separate legal entities or entities recog­nised by statute, re­gard­less of whether those entities have a legal per­son­al­ity
Joint arrange­ments
A joint arrange­ment is an arrange­ment of which two or more parties have joint control. [IFRS 11:4]
A joint arrange­ment has the following char­ac­ter­is­tics: [IFRS 11:5]
the parties are bound by a con­trac­tual arrange­ment, and
the con­trac­tual arrange­ment gives two or more of those parties joint control of the arrange­ment.
A joint arrange­ment is either a joint operation or a joint venture. [IFRS 11:6]
Joint control
Joint control is the con­trac­tu­ally agreed sharing of control of an arrange­ment, which exists only when decisions about the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. [IFRS 11:7]
Before assessing whether an entity has joint control over an arrange­ment, an entity first assesses whether the parties, or a group of the parties, control the arrange­ment (in ac­cor­dance with the de­f­i­n­i­tion of control in IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments). [IFRS 11:B5]
After con­clud­ing that all the parties, or a group of the parties, control the arrange­ment col­lec­tively, an entity shall assess whether it has joint control of the arrange­ment. Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties require the unanimous consent of the parties that col­lec­tively control the arrange­ment. [IFRS 11:B6]
The re­quire­ment for unanimous consent means that any party with joint control of the arrange­ment can prevent any of the other parties, or a group of the parties, from making uni­lat­eral decisions (about the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties) without its consent. [IFRS 11:B9]
Types of joint arrange­ments
Joint arrange­ments are either joint op­er­a­tions or joint ventures:
A joint operation is a joint arrange­ment whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrange­ment have rights to the assets, and oblig­a­tions for the li­a­bil­i­ties, relating to the arrange­ment. Those parties are called joint operators. [IFRS 11:15]
A joint venture is a joint arrange­ment whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrange­ment have rights to the net assets of the arrange­ment. Those parties are called joint venturers. [IFRS 11:16]
Clas­si­fy­ing joint arrange­ments
The clas­si­fi­ca­tion of a joint arrange­ment as a joint operation or a joint venture depends upon the rights and oblig­a­tions of the parties to the arrange­ment. An entity de­ter­mines the type of joint arrange­ment in which it is involved by con­sid­er­ing the structure and form of the arrange­ment, the terms agreed by the parties in the con­trac­tual arrange­ment and other facts and cir­cum­stances. [IFRS 11:6, IFRS 11:14, IFRS 11:17]
Re­gard­less of the purpose, structure or form of the arrange­ment, the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of joint arrange­ments depends upon the parties' rights and oblig­a­tions arising from the arrange­ment. [IFRS 11:B14; IFRS 11:B15]
A joint arrange­ment in which the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties relating to the arrange­ment are held in a separate vehicle can be either a joint venture or a joint operation. [IFRS 11:B19]
A joint arrange­ment that is not struc­tured through a separate vehicle is a joint operation. In such cases, the con­trac­tual arrange­ment es­tab­lishes the parties' rights to the assets, and oblig­a­tions for the li­a­bil­i­ties, relating to the arrange­ment, and the parties' rights to the cor­re­spond­ing revenues and oblig­a­tions for the cor­re­spond­ing expenses. [IFRS 11:B16]
Financial state­ments of parties to a joint arrange­ment
Joint op­er­a­tions
A joint operator recog­nises in relation to its interest in a joint operation: [IFRS 11:20]
its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly;
its li­a­bil­i­ties, including its share of any li­a­bil­i­ties incurred jointly;
its revenue from the sale of its share of the output of the joint operation;
its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation; and
its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
A joint operator accounts for the assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, revenues and expenses relating to its in­volve­ment in a joint operation in ac­cor­dance with the relevant IFRSs. [IFRS 11:21]
The acquirer of an interest in a joint operation in which the activity con­sti­tutes a business, as defined in IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions, is required to apply all of the prin­ci­ples on business com­bi­na­tions accounting in IFRS 3 and other IFRSs with the exception of those prin­ci­ples that conflict with the guidance in IFRS 11. [IFRS 11:21A] These re­quire­ments apply both to the initial ac­qui­si­tion of an interest in a joint operation, and the ac­qui­si­tion of an ad­di­tional interest in a joint operation (in the latter case, pre­vi­ously held interests are not re­mea­sured). [IFRS 11:B33C]
Note: The re­quire­ments above were in­tro­duced by Accounting for Ac­qui­si­tions of Interests in Joint Op­er­a­tions, which applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 on a prospec­tive basis to ac­qui­si­tions of interests in joint op­er­a­tions occurring from the beginning of the first period in which the amend­ments are applied.
A party that par­tic­i­pates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint operation shall also account for its interest in the arrange­ment in ac­cor­dance with the above if that party has rights to the assets, and oblig­a­tions for the li­a­bil­i­ties, relating to the joint operation. [IFRS 11:23]
Joint ventures
A joint venturer recog­nises its interest in a joint venture as an in­vest­ment and shall account for that in­vest­ment using the equity method in ac­cor­dance with IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures unless the entity is exempted from applying the equity method as specified in that standard. [IFRS 11:24]
A party that par­tic­i­pates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint venture accounts for its interest in the arrange­ment in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments unless it has sig­nif­i­cant influence over the joint venture, in which case it accounts for it in ac­cor­dance with IAS 28 (as amended in 2011). [IFRS 11:25]
Separate Financial State­ments
The accounting for joint arrange­ments in an entity's separate financial state­ments depends on the in­volve­ment of the entity in that joint arrange­ment and the type of the joint arrange­ment:
If the entity is a joint operator or joint venturer it shall account for its interest in
a joint operation in ac­cor­dance with para­graphs 20-22;
a joint venture in ac­cor­dance with paragraph 10 of IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments. [IFRS 11:26]
If the entity is a party that par­tic­i­pates in, but does not have joint control of, a joint arrange­ment shall account for its interest in:
a joint operation in ac­cor­dance with para­graphs 23;
a joint venture in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9, unless the entity has sig­nif­i­cant influence over the joint venture, in which case it shall apply paragraph 10 of IAS 27 (as amended in 2011). [IFRS 11:27]
Dis­clo­sure
There are no dis­clo­sures specified in IFRS 11. Instead, IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities outlines the dis­clo­sures required.
Ap­plic­a­bil­ity and early adoption
Note: This section has been updated to reflect the amend­ments to IFRS 11 made in June 2012.
IFRS 11 is ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. [IFRS 11:Appendix C1]
When IFRS 11 is first applied, an entity need only present the quan­ti­ta­tive in­for­ma­tion required by paragraph 28(f) of IAS 8 for the annual period im­me­di­ately preceding the first annual period for which the standard is applied [IFRS 11:C1B]
Special tran­si­tional pro­vi­sions are included for: [IFRS 11.Appendix C2-C13]
tran­si­tion from pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion to the equity method for joint ventures
tran­si­tion from the equity method to accounting for assets and li­a­bil­i­ties for joint op­er­a­tions
tran­si­tion in an entity's separate financial state­ments for a joint operation pre­vi­ously accounted for as an in­vest­ment at cost.
In general terms, the special tran­si­tional ad­just­ments are required to be applied at the beginning of the im­me­di­ately preceding period (rather than the the beginning of the earliest period presented).  However, an entity may choose to present adjusted com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion for earlier reporting periods, and must clearly identify any un­ad­justed com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion and explain the basis on which the com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion has been prepared [IFRS 11.C12A-C12B].
An entity may apply IFRS 11 to an earlier accounting period, but if doing so it must disclose the fact that is has early adopted the standard and also apply: [IFRS 11.Appendix C1]
IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments
IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (as amended in 2011)
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (as amended in 2011).
IFRS 12 — Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities is a con­sol­i­dated dis­clo­sure standard requiring a wide range of dis­clo­sures about an entity's interests in sub­sidiaries, joint arrange­ments, as­so­ci­ates and un­con­sol­i­dated 'struc­tured entities'. Dis­clo­sures are presented as a series of ob­jec­tives, with detailed guidance on sat­is­fy­ing those ob­jec­tives.
IFRS 12 was issued in May 2011 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IFRS 12
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
April 2002 Project on con­sol­i­da­tion added to the IASB's agenda History of the project
November 2004 Project on joint arrange­ments added to the IASB's agenda History of the project
13 September 2007 ED 9 Joint Arrange­ments published Comment deadline 11 January 2008
18 December 2008 ED 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments published Comment deadline 20 March 2009
January 2010 IASB decision to issue a separate dis­clo­sure standard ad­dress­ing a reporting entity's in­volve­ment with other entities that are not in the scope of IAS 39/IFRS 9 (including sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates and joint arrange­ments and un­con­sol­i­dated SPEs/struc­tured entities)
12 May 2011 IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
28 June 2012 Amended by Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments, Joint Arrange­ments and Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities: Tran­si­tion Guidance (project history) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
31 October 2012 Amended by In­vest­ment Entities (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) (project history) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
18 December 2014 Amended by In­vest­ment Entities: Applying the Con­sol­i­da­tion Exception (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) (project history) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
8 December 2016 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2014–2016 Cycle (Clar­i­fi­ca­tion of the scope of the Standard). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
IFRS 13 — Unit of account
The IASB has signalled an intention to conduct a post-im­ple­men­ta­tion review of IFRS 12, com­menc­ing in 2016.
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Pub­li­ca­tions and resources
IFRS in Focus Newslet­ter IASB issues new standard on dis­clo­sure of interests in other entities sum­maris­ing the re­quire­ments of IFRS 12 (PDF 65k, May 2011)
Effect analysis for IFRS 10 and IFRS 12 (link to IASB website)
Summary of IFRS 12
Objective and scope
The objective of IFRS 12 is to require the dis­clo­sure of in­for­ma­tion that enables users of financial state­ments to evaluate: [IFRS 12:1]
the nature of, and risks as­so­ci­ated with, its interests in other entities
the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial per­for­mance and cash flows.
Where the dis­clo­sures required by IFRS 12, together with the dis­clo­sures required by other IFRSs, do not meet the above objective, an entity is required to disclose whatever ad­di­tional in­for­ma­tion is necessary to meet the objective. [IFRS 12:3]
IFRS 12 is required to be applied by an entity that has an interest in any of the following: [IFRS 12:5]
sub­sidiaries
joint arrange­ments (joint op­er­a­tions or joint ventures)
as­so­ci­ates
un­con­sol­i­dated struc­tured entities
Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2014–2016 Cycle clarified that the dis­clo­sures required in IFRS 12 (with the exception of B10-B16) also apply to interests held for sale and dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5. [IFRS 12:5A]
IFRS 12 does not apply to certain employee benefit plans, separate financial state­ments to which IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments applies (except in relation to un­con­sol­i­dated struc­tured entities and in­vest­ment entities in some cases), certain interests in joint ventures held by an entity that does not share in joint control, and the majority of interests in another entity accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments. [IFRS 12:6]
An in­vest­ment entity that prepares financial state­ments in which all of its sub­sidiaries are measured at fair value through profit or loss presents the dis­clo­sures relating to in­vest­ment entities required by IFRS 12. [IFRS 12:6]*
* Added by In­vest­ment Entities: Applying the Con­sol­i­da­tion Exception (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) amend­ments, effective 1 January 2016.
  Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 12:Appendix A]
Interest in another entity
Refers to con­trac­tual and non-con­trac­tual in­volve­ment that exposes an entity to vari­abil­ity of returns from the per­for­mance of the other entity. An interest in another entity can be evidenced by, but is not limited to, the holding of equity or debt in­stru­ments as well as other forms of in­volve­ment such as the provision of funding, liquidity support, credit en­hance­ment and guar­an­tees. It includes the means by which an entity has control or joint control of, or sig­nif­i­cant influence over, another entity. An entity does not nec­es­sar­ily have an interest in another entity solely because of a typical customer supplier re­la­tion­ship.
Struc­tured entity
An entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to ad­min­is­tra­tive tasks only and the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties are directed by means of con­trac­tual arrange­ments.
Dis­clo­sures required
Important note: The summary of dis­clo­sures that follows is a high-level summary of the main re­quire­ments of IFRS 12. It does not list every specific dis­clo­sure required by the standard, but instead high­lights the broad ob­jec­tives, cat­e­gories and nature of the dis­clo­sures required. IFRS 12 lists specific examples and ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures which further expand upon the dis­clo­sure ob­jec­tives, and includes other guidance on the dis­clo­sures required. Ac­cord­ingly, readers should not consider this to be a com­pre­hen­sive or complete listing of the dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments of IFRS 12.
Sig­nif­i­cant judge­ments and as­sump­tions
An entity discloses in­for­ma­tion about sig­nif­i­cant judge­ments and as­sump­tions it has made (and changes in those judge­ments and as­sump­tions) in de­ter­min­ing: [IFRS 12:7]
that it controls another entity
that it has joint control of an arrange­ment or sig­nif­i­cant influence over another entity
the type of joint arrange­ment (i.e. joint operation or joint venture) when the arrange­ment has been struc­tured through a separate vehicle.
Interests in sub­sidiaries
An entity shall disclose in­for­ma­tion that enables users of its con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments to: [IFRS 12:10]
un­der­stand the com­po­si­tion of the group
un­der­stand the interest that non-con­trol­ling interests have in the group's ac­tiv­i­ties and cash flows
evaluate the nature and extent of sig­nif­i­cant re­stric­tions on its ability to access or use assets, and settle li­a­bil­i­ties, of the group
evaluate the nature of, and changes in, the risks as­so­ci­ated with its interests in con­sol­i­dated struc­tured entities
evaluate the con­se­quences of changes in its ownership interest in a sub­sidiary that do not result in a loss of control
evaluate the con­se­quences of losing control of a sub­sidiary during the reporting period.
Interests in un­con­sol­i­dated sub­sidiaries
[Note: The in­vest­ment entity con­sol­i­da­tion exemption referred to in this section was in­tro­duced by In­vest­ment Entities, issued on 31 October 2012 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.]
In ac­cor­dance with IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments, an in­vest­ment entity is required to apply the exception to con­sol­i­da­tion and instead account for its in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary at fair value through profit or loss. [IFRS 10:31].
Where an entity is an in­vest­ment entity, IFRS 12 requires ad­di­tional dis­clo­sure, including:
the fact the entity is an in­vest­ment entity [IFRS 12:19A]
in­for­ma­tion about sig­nif­i­cant judge­ments and as­sump­tions it has made in de­ter­min­ing that it is an in­vest­ment entity, and specif­i­cally where the entity does not have one or more of the 'typical char­ac­ter­is­tics' of an in­vest­ment entity  [IFRS 12:9A]
details of sub­sidiaries that have not been con­sol­i­dated (name, place of business, ownership interests held) [IFRS 12:19B]
details of the re­la­tion­ship and certain trans­ac­tions between the in­vest­ment entity and the sub­sidiary (e.g. re­stric­tions on transfer of funds, com­mit­ments, support arrange­ments, con­trac­tual arrange­ments) [IFRS 12: 19D-19G]
in­for­ma­tion where an entity becomes, or ceases to be, an in­vest­ment entity [IFRS 12:9B]
An entity making these dis­clo­sures are not required to provide various other dis­clo­sures required by IFRS 12 [IFRS 12:21A, IFRS 12:25A].
Interests in joint arrange­ments and as­so­ci­ates
An entity shall disclose in­for­ma­tion that enables users of its financial state­ments to evaluate: [IFRS 12:20]
the nature, extent and financial effects of its interests in joint arrange­ments and as­so­ci­ates, including the nature and effects of its con­trac­tual re­la­tion­ship with the other investors with joint control of, or sig­nif­i­cant influence over, joint arrange­ments and as­so­ci­ates
the nature of, and changes in, the risks as­so­ci­ated with its interests in joint ventures and as­so­ci­ates.
Interests in un­con­sol­i­dated struc­tured entities
An entity shall disclose in­for­ma­tion that enables users of its financial state­ments to: [IFRS 12:24]
un­der­stand the nature and extent of its interests in un­con­sol­i­dated struc­tured entities
evaluate the nature of, and changes in, the risks as­so­ci­ated with its interests in un­con­sol­i­dated struc­tured entities.
Ap­plic­a­bil­ity and early adoption
[IFRS 12: Appendix C]
IFRS 12 is ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Early ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
The dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments of IFRS 12 need not be applied for any period presented that begins before the annual period im­me­di­ately preceding the first annual period for which IFRS 12 is applied [IFRS 12:C2A]
Entities are en­cour­aged to vol­un­tar­ily provide the in­for­ma­tion required by IFRS 12 prior to its adoption. Providing some of the dis­clo­sures required by IFRS 12 does not compel an entity to comply with all of the re­quire­ments of the IFRS or to also apply:
IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments
IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments
IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (2011)
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (2011).
IFRS 13 — Fair Value Measurement
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment applies to IFRSs that require or permit fair value mea­sure­ments or dis­clo­sures and provides a single IFRS framework for measuring fair value and requires dis­clo­sures about fair value mea­sure­ment. The Standard defines fair value on the basis of an 'exit price' notion and uses a 'fair value hierarchy', which results in a mar­ket-based, rather than en­tity-spe­cific, mea­sure­ment.
IFRS 13 was orig­i­nally issued in May 2011 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IFRS 13
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
September 2005 Project on fair value mea­sure­ment added to the IASB's agenda History of the project
30 November 2006 Dis­cus­sion Paper Fair Value Mea­sure­ments published Comment deadline 2 April 2007
28 May 2009 Exposure Draft Fair Value Mea­sure­ment published Comment deadline 28 September 2009
29 June 2010 Exposure Draft Mea­sure­ment Un­cer­tainty Analysis Dis­clo­sure for Fair Value Mea­sure­ments published Comment deadline 7 September 2010
19 August 2010 Staff draft of a IFRS on fair value mea­sure­ment released
12 May 2011 IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (short-term re­ceiv­ables and payables) Amendment to the basis for con­clu­sions only
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle (scope of portfolio exception in paragraph 52) Effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2014
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Pub­li­ca­tions and resources
IFRS in Focus Newslet­ter IASB issues new standard on fair value mea­sure­ment and dis­clo­sure sum­maris­ing the re­quire­ments of IFRS 13 (PDF 78k, May 2011)
Deloitte IFRS Podcast (May 2011, 10 minutes, 7mb)
Summary of IFRS 13
Objective
IFRS 13: [IFRS 13:1]
defines fair value
sets out in a single IFRS a framework for measuring fair value
requires dis­clo­sures about fair value mea­sure­ments.
IFRS 13 applies when another IFRS requires or permits fair value mea­sure­ments or dis­clo­sures about fair value mea­sure­ments (and mea­sure­ments, such as fair value less costs to sell, based on fair value or dis­clo­sures about those mea­sure­ments), except for: [IFRS 13:5-7]
share-based payment trans­ac­tions within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
leasing trans­ac­tions within the scope of IAS 17 Leases
mea­sure­ments that have some sim­i­lar­i­ties to fair value but that are not fair value, such as net re­al­is­able value in IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries or value in use in IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets.
Ad­di­tional ex­emp­tions apply to the dis­clo­sures required by IFRS 13.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 13:Appendix A]
Fair value
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly trans­ac­tion between market par­tic­i­pants at the mea­sure­ment date
Active market
A market in which trans­ac­tions for the asset or liability take place with suf­fi­cient frequency and volume to provide pricing in­for­ma­tion on an ongoing basis
Exit price
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
Highest and best use
The use of a non-fi­nan­cial asset by market par­tic­i­pants that would maximise the value of the asset or the group of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties (e.g. a business) within which the asset would be used
Most ad­van­ta­geous market
The market that maximises the amount that would be received to sell the asset or minimises the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability, after taking into account trans­ac­tion costs and transport costs
Principal market
The market with the greatest volume and level of activity for the asset or liability
Fair value hierarchy
Overview
IFRS 13 seeks to increase con­sis­tency and com­pa­ra­bil­ity in fair value mea­sure­ments and related dis­clo­sures through a 'fair value hierarchy'. The hierarchy cat­e­gorises the inputs used in valuation tech­niques into three levels. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to (un­ad­justed) quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or li­a­bil­i­ties and the lowest priority to un­ob­serv­able inputs. [IFRS 13:72]
If the inputs used to measure fair value are cat­e­gorised into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value mea­sure­ment is cat­e­gorised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input that is sig­nif­i­cant to the entire mea­sure­ment (based on the ap­pli­ca­tion of judgement). [IFRS 13:73]
Level 1 inputs
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or li­a­bil­i­ties that the entity can access at the mea­sure­ment date. [IFRS 13:76]
A quoted market price in an active market provides the most reliable evidence of fair value and is used without ad­just­ment to measure fair value whenever available, with limited ex­cep­tions. [IFRS 13:77]
If an entity holds a position in a single asset or liability and the asset or liability is traded in an active market, the fair value of the asset or liability is measured within Level 1 as the product of the quoted price for the in­di­vid­ual asset or liability and the quantity held by the entity, even if the market's normal daily trading volume is not suf­fi­cient to absorb the quantity held and placing orders to sell the position in a single trans­ac­tion might affect the quoted price. [IFRS 13:80]
Level 2 inputs
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are ob­serv­able for the asset or liability, either directly or in­di­rectly. [IFRS 13:81]
Level 2 inputs include:
quoted prices for similar assets or li­a­bil­i­ties in active markets
quoted prices for identical or similar assets or li­a­bil­i­ties in markets that are not active
inputs other than quoted prices that are ob­serv­able for the asset or liability, for example
interest rates and yield curves ob­serv­able at commonly quoted intervals
implied volatil­i­ties
credit spreads
inputs that are derived prin­ci­pally from or cor­rob­o­rated by ob­serv­able market data by cor­re­la­tion or other means ('mar­ket-cor­rob­o­rated inputs').
Level 3 inputs
Level 3 inputs inputs are un­ob­serv­able inputs for the asset or liability. [IFRS 13:86]
Un­ob­serv­able inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that relevant ob­serv­able inputs are not available, thereby allowing for sit­u­a­tions in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the mea­sure­ment date. An entity develops un­ob­serv­able inputs using the best in­for­ma­tion available in the cir­cum­stances, which might include the entity's own data, taking into account all in­for­ma­tion about market par­tic­i­pant as­sump­tions that is rea­son­ably available. [IFRS 13:87-89]
Mea­sure­ment of fair value
Overview of fair value mea­sure­ment approach
The objective of a fair value mea­sure­ment is to estimate the price at which an orderly trans­ac­tion to sell the asset or to transfer the liability would take place between market par­tic­i­pants at the mea­sure­ment date under current market con­di­tions. A fair value mea­sure­ment requires an entity to determine all of the following: [IFRS 13:B2]
the par­tic­u­lar asset or liability that is the subject of the mea­sure­ment (con­sis­tently with its unit of account)
for a non-fi­nan­cial asset, the valuation premise that is ap­pro­pri­ate for the mea­sure­ment (con­sis­tently with its highest and best use)
the principal (or most ad­van­ta­geous) market for the asset or liability
the valuation technique(s) ap­pro­pri­ate for the mea­sure­ment, con­sid­er­ing the avail­abil­ity of data with which to develop inputs that represent the as­sump­tions that market par­tic­i­pants would use when pricing the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the inputs are cat­e­gorised.
Guidance on mea­sure­ment
IFRS 13 provides the guidance on the mea­sure­ment of fair value, including the following:
An entity takes into account the char­ac­ter­is­tics of the asset or liability being measured that a market par­tic­i­pant would take into account when pricing the asset or liability at mea­sure­ment date (e.g. the condition and location of the asset and any re­stric­tions on the sale and use of the asset) [IFRS 13:11]
Fair value mea­sure­ment assumes an orderly trans­ac­tion between market par­tic­i­pants at the mea­sure­ment date under current market con­di­tions [IFRS 13:15]
Fair value mea­sure­ment assumes a trans­ac­tion taking place in the principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, the most ad­van­ta­geous market for the asset or liability [IFRS 13:24]
A fair value mea­sure­ment of a non-fi­nan­cial asset takes into account its highest and best use [IFRS 13:27]
A fair value mea­sure­ment of a financial or non-fi­nan­cial liability or an entity's own equity in­stru­ments assumes it is trans­ferred to a market par­tic­i­pant at the mea­sure­ment date, without set­tle­ment, ex­tin­guish­ment, or can­cel­la­tion at the mea­sure­ment date [IFRS 13:34]
The fair value of a liability reflects non-per­for­mance risk (the risk the entity will not fulfil an oblig­a­tion), including an entity's own credit risk and assuming the same non-per­for­mance risk before and after the transfer of the liability [IFRS 13:42]
An optional exception applies for certain financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties with off­set­ting positions in market risks or coun­ter­party credit risk, provided con­di­tions are met (ad­di­tional dis­clo­sure is required). [IFRS 13:48, IFRS 13:96]
Valuation tech­niques
An entity uses valuation tech­niques ap­pro­pri­ate in the cir­cum­stances and for which suf­fi­cient data are available to measure fair value, max­imis­ing the use of relevant ob­serv­able inputs and min­imis­ing the use of un­ob­serv­able inputs. [IFRS 13:61, IFRS 13:67]
The objective of using a valuation technique is to estimate the price at which an orderly trans­ac­tion to sell the asset or to transfer the liability would take place between market par­tic­i­pants and the mea­sure­ment date under current market con­di­tions. Three widely used valuation tech­niques are: [IFRS 13:62]
market approach – uses prices and other relevant in­for­ma­tion generated by market trans­ac­tions involving identical or com­pa­ra­ble (similar) assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, or a group of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties (e.g. a business)
cost approach – reflects the amount that would be required currently to replace the service capacity of an asset (current re­place­ment cost)
income approach – converts future amounts (cash flows or income and expenses) to a single current (dis­counted) amount, re­flect­ing current market ex­pec­ta­tions about those future amounts.
In some cases, a single valuation technique will be ap­pro­pri­ate, whereas in others multiple valuation tech­niques will be ap­pro­pri­ate. [IFRS 13:63]
Dis­clo­sure
Dis­clo­sure objective
IFRS 13 requires an entity to disclose in­for­ma­tion that helps users of its financial state­ments assess both of the following: [IFRS 13:91]
for assets and li­a­bil­i­ties that are measured at fair value on a recurring or non-re­cur­ring basis in the statement of financial position after initial recog­ni­tion, the valuation tech­niques and inputs used to develop those mea­sure­ments
for fair value mea­sure­ments using sig­nif­i­cant un­ob­serv­able inputs (Level 3), the effect of the mea­sure­ments on profit or loss or other com­pre­hen­sive income for the period.
Dis­clo­sure ex­emp­tions
The dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments are not required for: [IFRS 13:7]
plan assets measured at fair value in ac­cor­dance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits
re­tire­ment benefit plan in­vest­ments measured at fair value in ac­cor­dance with IAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Re­tire­ment Benefit Plans
assets for which re­cov­er­able amount is fair value less costs of disposal in ac­cor­dance with IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets.
Iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of classes
Where dis­clo­sures are required to be provided for each class of asset or liability, an entity de­ter­mines ap­pro­pri­ate classes on the basis of the nature, char­ac­ter­is­tics and risks of the asset or liability, and the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value mea­sure­ment is cat­e­gorised. [IFRS 13:94]
De­ter­min­ing ap­pro­pri­ate classes of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties for which dis­clo­sures about fair value mea­sure­ments should be provided requires judgement. A class of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties will often require greater dis­ag­gre­ga­tion than the line items presented in the statement of financial position. The number of classes may need to be greater for fair value mea­sure­ments cat­e­gorised within Level 3.
Some dis­clo­sures are dif­fer­en­ti­ated on whether the mea­sure­ments are:
Recurring fair value mea­sure­ments – fair value mea­sure­ments required or permitted by other IFRSs to be recog­nised in the statement of financial position at the end of each reporting period
Non-re­cur­ring fair value mea­sure­ments are fair value mea­sure­ments that are required or permitted by other IFRSs to be measured in the statement of financial position in par­tic­u­lar cir­cum­stances.
Specific dis­clo­sures required
To meet the dis­clo­sure objective, the following minimum dis­clo­sures are required for each class of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties measured at fair value (including mea­sure­ments based on fair value within the scope of this IFRS) in the statement of financial position after initial recog­ni­tion (note these are re­quire­ments have been sum­marised and ad­di­tional dis­clo­sure is required where necessary): [IFRS 13:93]
the fair value mea­sure­ment at the end of the reporting period*
for non-re­cur­ring fair value mea­sure­ments, the reasons for the mea­sure­ment*
the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value mea­sure­ments are cat­e­gorised in their entirety (Level 1, 2 or 3)*
for assets and li­a­bil­i­ties held at the reporting date that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the amounts of any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for those transfers and the entity's policy for de­ter­min­ing when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred, sep­a­rately dis­clos­ing and dis­cussing transfers into and out of each level
for fair value mea­sure­ments cat­e­gorised within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a de­scrip­tion of the valuation technique(s) and the inputs used in the fair value mea­sure­ment, any change in the valuation tech­niques and the reason(s) for making such change (with some ex­cep­tions)*
for fair value mea­sure­ments cat­e­gorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, quan­ti­ta­tive in­for­ma­tion about the sig­nif­i­cant un­ob­serv­able inputs used in the fair value mea­sure­ment (with some ex­cep­tions)
for recurring fair value mea­sure­ments cat­e­gorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion from the opening balances to the closing balances, dis­clos­ing sep­a­rately changes during the period at­trib­ut­able to the following:
total gains or losses for the period recog­nised in profit or loss, and the line item(s) in profit or loss in which those gains or losses are recog­nised – sep­a­rately dis­clos­ing the amount included in profit or loss that is at­trib­ut­able to the change in un­re­alised gains or losses relating to those assets and li­a­bil­i­ties held at the end of the reporting period, and the line item(s) in profit or loss in which those un­re­alised gains or losses are recog­nised
total gains or losses for the period recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income, and the line item(s) in other com­pre­hen­sive income in which those gains or losses are recog­nised
purchases, sales, issues and set­tle­ments (each of those types of changes disclosed sep­a­rately)
the amounts of any transfers into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for those transfers and the entity's policy for de­ter­min­ing when transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred. Transfers into Level 3 shall be disclosed and discussed sep­a­rately from transfers out of Level 3
for fair value mea­sure­ments cat­e­gorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a de­scrip­tion of the valuation processes used by the entity
for recurring fair value mea­sure­ments cat­e­gorised within Level 3of the fair value hierarchy:
a narrative de­scrip­tion of the sen­si­tiv­ity of the fair value mea­sure­ment to changes in un­ob­serv­able inputs if a change in those inputs to a different amount might result in a sig­nif­i­cantly higher or lower fair value mea­sure­ment. If there are in­ter­re­la­tion­ships between those inputs and other un­ob­serv­able inputs used in the fair value mea­sure­ment, the entity also provides a de­scrip­tion of those in­ter­re­la­tion­ships and of how they might magnify or mitigate the effect of changes in the un­ob­serv­able inputs on the fair value mea­sure­ment
for financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties, if changing one or more of the un­ob­serv­able inputs to reflect rea­son­ably possible al­ter­na­tive as­sump­tions would change fair value sig­nif­i­cantly, an entity shall state that fact and disclose the effect of those changes. The entity shall disclose how the effect of a change to reflect a rea­son­ably possible al­ter­na­tive as­sump­tion was cal­cu­lated
if the highest and best use of a non-fi­nan­cial asset differs from its current use, an entity shall disclose that fact and why the non-fi­nan­cial asset is being used in a manner that differs from its highest and best use*.
'*' in the list above indicates that the dis­clo­sure is also ap­plic­a­ble to a class of assets or li­a­bil­i­ties which is not measured at fair value in the statement of financial position but for which the fair value is disclosed. [IFRS 13:97]
Quan­ti­ta­tive dis­clo­sures are required to be presented in a tabular format unless another format is more ap­pro­pri­ate. [IFRS 13:99]
Effective date and tran­si­tion
[IFRS 13:Appendix C]
IFRS 13 is ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. An entity may apply IFRS 13 to an earlier accounting period, but if doing so it must disclose the fact.
Ap­pli­ca­tion is required prospec­tively as of the beginning of the annual reporting period in which the IFRS is initially applied. Com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion need not be disclosed for periods before initial ap­pli­ca­tion.
IFRS 14 — Regulatory Deferral Accounts
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 14 Reg­u­la­tory Deferral Accounts permits an entity which is a first-time adopter of International Financial Reporting Standards to continue to account, with some limited changes, for 'reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances' in ac­cor­dance with its previous GAAP, both on initial adoption of IFRS and in sub­se­quent financial state­ments. Reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances, and movements in them, are presented sep­a­rately in the statement of financial position and statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income, and specific dis­clo­sures are required.
IFRS 14 was orig­i­nally issued in January 2014 and applies to an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for a period beginning on or after 1 January 2016.

History of IFRS 14
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
December 2012 IASB re­ac­ti­vated the rate regulated ac­tiv­i­ties project The IASB indicated it would consider an interim standard for entities adopting IFRS before com­plet­ing a com­pre­hen­sive project
25 April 2013 Exposure Draft ED/2013/5 Reg­u­la­tory Deferral Accounts published Comment deadline 4 September 2013
30 January 2014 IFRS 14 Reg­u­la­tory Deferral Accounts issued Effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Rate regulated ac­tiv­i­ties — Com­pre­hen­sive project
  Summary of IFRS 14
Objective
The objective of IFRS 14 is to specify the financial reporting re­quire­ments for 'reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances' that arise when an entity provides good or services to customers at a price or rate that is subject to rate reg­u­la­tion. [IFRS 14:1]
IFRS 14 is designed as a limited scope Standard to provide an interim, short-term solution for rate-reg­u­lated entities that have not yet adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Its purpose is to allow rate-reg­u­lated entities adopting IFRS for the first-time to avoid changes in accounting policies in respect of reg­u­la­tory deferral accounts until such time as the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) can complete its com­pre­hen­sive project on rate regulated ac­tiv­i­ties.
Scope
IFRS 14 is permitted, but not required, to be applied where an entity conducts rate-reg­u­lated ac­tiv­i­ties and has recog­nised amounts in its previous GAAP financial state­ments that meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of 'reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances' (sometimes referred to 'reg­u­la­tory assets' and 'reg­u­la­tory li­a­bil­i­ties'). [IFRS 14.5]
Entities which are eligible to apply IFRS 14 are not required to do so, and so can choose to apply only the re­quire­ments of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards when first applying IFRSs. The election to adopt IFRS 14 is only available on the initial adoption of IFRSs, meaning an entity cannot apply IFRS 14 for the first time in financial state­ments sub­se­quent to those prepared on the initial adoption of IFRSs.  However, an entity that elects to apply IFRS 14 in its first IFRS financial state­ments must continue to apply it in sub­se­quent financial state­ments. [IFRS 14.6]
When applied, the re­quire­ments of IFRS 14 must be applied to all reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances arising from an entity's rate-reg­u­lated ac­tiv­i­ties. [IFRS 14.8]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 14:Appendix A]
Rate reg­u­la­tion
A framework for es­tab­lish­ing the prices that can be charged to customers for goods and services and that framework is subject to oversight and/or approval by a rate-reg­u­la­tor
Rate regulator
An au­tho­rised body that is empowered by statute or reg­u­la­tion to establish the rate or range of rates that bind an entity. The rate regulator may be a third-party body or a related party of the entity, including the entity's own governing board, if that body is required by statute or reg­u­la­tion to set rates both in the interest of customers and to ensure the overall financial viability of the entity
Reg­u­la­tory deferral account balance
The balance of any expense (or income) account that would not be recog­nised as an asset or a liability in ac­cor­dance with other Standards, but that qualifies for deferral because it is included, or is expected to be included, by the rate regulator in es­tab­lish­ing the rate(s) that can be charged to customers
Accounting policies for reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances
IFRS 14 provides an exemption from paragraph 11 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors when an entity de­ter­mines its accounting policies for reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances. [IFRS 14.9] Paragraph 11 of IAS 8 requires an entity to consider the re­quire­ments of IFRSs dealing with similar matters and the re­quire­ments of the Conceptual Framework when setting its accounting policies.
The effect of the exemption is that eligible entities can continue to apply the accounting policies used for reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances under the basis of accounting used im­me­di­ately before adopting IFRS ('previous GAAP') when applying IFRSs, subject to the pre­sen­ta­tion re­quire­ments of IFRS 14 [IFRS 14.11].
Entities are permitted to change their accounting policies for reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances in ac­cor­dance with IAS 8, but only if the change makes the financial state­ments more relevant and no less reliable, or more reliable and not less relevant, to the economic de­ci­sion-mak­ing needs of users of the entity's financial state­ments. However, an entity is not permitted to change accounting policies to start to recognise reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances. [IFRS 14.13]
In­ter­ac­tion with other Standards
The re­quire­ments of other IFRSs are required to be applied to reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances, subject to specific ex­cep­tions, ex­emp­tions and ad­di­tional re­quire­ments contained in IFRS 14 [IFRS 14.16]. These are briefly sum­marised below: [IFRS 14.B7-B28]
  IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period
The re­quire­ments of IAS 10 are applied when de­ter­min­ing which events after the end of the reporting period should be taken into account in the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances
IAS 12 Income Taxes
Deferred tax assets and li­a­bil­i­ties arising from reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are presented sep­a­rately from total deferred tax amounts and movements in those deferred tax balances are presented sep­a­rately from tax expense (income)
IAS 33 Earnings Per Share
Entities applying IFRS 14 are required to present an ad­di­tional basic and diluted earnings per share that excludes the impacts of the net movement in reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances
IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets
Reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are included in the carrying amount of any relevant cash-gen­er­at­ing unit (CGU) and are treated in the same way as other assets and li­a­bil­i­ties where an im­pair­ment loss arises
IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions
The entity's accounting policies for reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are used in applying the ac­qui­si­tion method, which can result in the recog­ni­tion of reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances in respect of an acquiree, re­gard­less of whether the acquiree itself recog­nised such balances
IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions
The mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments of IFRS 5 do not apply to reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances, and mod­i­fi­ca­tions are made to the pre­sen­ta­tion of in­for­ma­tion about dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions and disposal groups in relation to such balances
IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments and IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (2011)
The entity's accounting policies in respect of reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are required to be applied in an entity's con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments or in the de­ter­mi­na­tion of equity accounted in­for­ma­tion of as­so­ci­ates or joint ventures, notwith­stand­ing that the entity's investees may not have recog­nised reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances in their financial state­ments
IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities
Separate dis­clo­sure of reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances and net movements in those balances recog­nised in profit or loss or other com­pre­hen­sive income are required for various IFRS 12 dis­clo­sures
Pre­sen­ta­tion in financial state­ments
The impact of reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are sep­a­rately presented in an entity's financial state­ments. This re­quire­ments applies re­gard­less of the entity's previous pre­sen­ta­tion policies in respect of reg­u­la­tory deferral balance accounts under its previous GAAP. Ac­cord­ingly:
Separate line items are presented in the statement of financial position for the total of all reg­u­la­tory deferral account debit balances, and all reg­u­la­tory deferral account credit balances [IFRS 14.20]
Reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are not clas­si­fied between current and non-cur­rent, but are sep­a­rately disclosed using subtotals [IFRS 14.21]
The net movement in reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are sep­a­rately presented in the statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income using subtotals [IFRS 14.22-23]
The Il­lus­tra­tive examples ac­com­pa­ny­ing IFRS 14 set out an il­lus­tra­tive pre­sen­ta­tion of financial state­ments by an entity applying the Standard.
Dis­clo­sures
IFRS 14 sets out dis­clo­sure ob­jec­tives to allow users to assess: [IFRS 14.27]
the nature of, and risks as­so­ci­ated with, the rate reg­u­la­tion that es­tab­lishes the price(s) the entity can charge customers for the goods or services it provides - including in­for­ma­tion about the entity's rate-reg­u­lated ac­tiv­i­ties and the rate-set­ting process, the identity of the rate regulator(s), and the impacts of risks and un­cer­tain­ties on the recovery or reversal of reg­u­la­tory deferral balance accounts
the effects of rate reg­u­la­tion on the entity's financial state­ments - including the basis on which reg­u­la­tory deferral account balances are recog­nised, how they are assessed for recovery, a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the reporting period, discount rates ap­plic­a­ble, income tax impacts and details of balances that are no longer con­sid­ered re­cov­er­able or re­versible.
Effective date
Where an entity elects to apply it, IFRS 14 is effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments that are for a period beginning on or after 1 January 2016. The standard can be applied earlier, but the entity must disclose when it has done so. [IFRS 14.C1]
IFRS 15 — Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Quick Article Links
Overview
IFRS 15 specifies how and when an IFRS reporter will recognise revenue as well as requiring such entities to provide users of financial state­ments with more in­for­ma­tive, relevant dis­clo­sures. The standard provides a single, prin­ci­ples based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and applies to an annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 2018. On 12 April 2016, clar­i­fy­ing amend­ments were issued that have the same effective date as the standard itself.
History of IFRS 15
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
June 2002 Project on revenue added to the IASB's agenda History of the project
19 December 2008 Dis­cus­sion Paper Pre­lim­i­nary Views on Revenue Recog­ni­tion in Contracts with Customers published Comment deadline 19 June 2009
24 June 2010 Exposure Draft ED/2010/6 Revenue from Contracts with Customers published Comment deadline 22 October 2010
14 November 2011 Exposure Draft ED/2011/6 Revenue from Contracts with Customers published (re-ex­po­sure) Comment deadline 13 March 2012
28 May 2014 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers issued Effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017
11 September 2015 IASB defers effective date of IFRS 15 to 1 January 2018
New effective date of IFRS 15 is 1 January 2018
12 April 2016
Clar­i­fi­ca­tions to IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' issued
Effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
The amend­ments do not change the un­der­ly­ing prin­ci­ples of the standard, just clarify and offer some ad­di­tional tran­si­tion relief.
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Su­per­seded Standards
IFRS 15 replaces the following standards and in­ter­pre­ta­tions:

IAS 11 Con­struc­tion contracts
IAS 18 Revenue
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Pro­grammes
IFRIC 15 Agree­ments for the Con­struc­tion of Real Estate
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers
SIC-31 Revenue - Barter Trans­ac­tions Involving Ad­ver­tis­ing Services
  Summary of IFRS 15
Objective
The objective of IFRS 15 is to establish the prin­ci­ples that an entity shall apply to report useful in­for­ma­tion to users of financial state­ments about the nature, amount, timing, and un­cer­tainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer. [IFRS 15:1] Ap­pli­ca­tion of the standard is mandatory for annual reporting periods starting from 1 January 2018 onwards. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
  Scope
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers applies to all contracts with customers except for: leases within the scope of IAS 17 Leases; financial in­stru­ments and other con­trac­tual rights or oblig­a­tions within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments, IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments, IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments, IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments and IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures; insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts; and non-mon­e­tary exchanges between entities in the same line of business to fa­cil­i­tate sales to customers or potential customers. [IFRS 15:5]
A contract with a customer may be partially within the scope of IFRS 15 and partially within the scope of another standard.  In that scenario: [IFRS 15:7]
if other standards specify how to separate and/or initially measure one or more parts of the contract, then those sep­a­ra­tion and mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments are applied first. The trans­ac­tion price is then reduced by the amounts that are initially measured under other standards;
if no other standard provides guidance on how to separate and/or initially measure one or more parts of the contract, then IFRS 15 will be applied. 
  Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 15: Appendix A]
Contract
An agreement between two or more parties that creates en­force­able rights and oblig­a­tions.
Customer
A party that has con­tracted with an entity to obtain goods or services that are an output of the entity’s ordinary ac­tiv­i­ties in exchange for con­sid­er­a­tion.
Income
Increases in economic benefits during the accounting period in the form of inflows or en­hance­ments of assets or decreases of li­a­bil­i­ties that result in an increase in equity, other than those relating to con­tri­bu­tions from equity par­tic­i­pants.
Per­for­mance oblig­a­tion
A promise in a contract with a customer to transfer to the customer either:
a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct; or
a series of distinct goods or services that are sub­stan­tially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
Revenue
Income arising in the course of an entity’s ordinary ac­tiv­i­ties.
Trans­ac­tion price
The amount of con­sid­er­a­tion to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for trans­fer­ring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
  Accounting re­quire­ments for revenue
The five-step model framework
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity will recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the con­sid­er­a­tion to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  This core principle is delivered in a five-step model framework: [IFRS 15:IN7]
Identify the contract(s) with a customer
Identify the per­for­mance oblig­a­tions in the contract
Determine the trans­ac­tion price
Allocate the trans­ac­tion price to the per­for­mance oblig­a­tions in the contract
Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a per­for­mance oblig­a­tion.
Ap­pli­ca­tion of this guidance will depend on the facts and cir­cum­stances present in a contract with a customer and will require the exercise of judgment.
Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer
A contract with a customer will be within the scope of IFRS 15 if all the following con­di­tions are met: [IFRS 15:9]
the contract has been approved by the parties to the contract;
each party’s rights in relation to the goods or services to be trans­ferred can be iden­ti­fied;
the payment terms for the goods or services to be trans­ferred can be iden­ti­fied;
the contract has com­mer­cial substance; and
it is probable that the con­sid­er­a­tion to which the entity is entitled to in exchange for the goods or services will be collected.
If a contract with a customer does not yet meet all of the above criteria, the entity will continue to re-assess the contract going forward to determine whether it sub­se­quently meets the above criteria. From that point, the entity will apply IFRS 15 to the contract. [IFRS 15:14]
The standard provides detailed guidance on how to account for approved contract mod­i­fi­ca­tions. If certain con­di­tions are met, a contract mod­i­fi­ca­tion will be accounted for as a separate contract with the customer. If not, it will be accounted for by modifying the accounting for the current contract with the customer. Whether the latter type of mod­i­fi­ca­tion is accounted for prospec­tively or ret­ro­spec­tively depends on whether the remaining goods or services to be delivered after the mod­i­fi­ca­tion are distinct from those delivered prior to the mod­i­fi­ca­tion. Further details on accounting for contract mod­i­fi­ca­tions can be found in the Standard. [IFRS 15:18-21].
Step 2: Identify the per­for­mance oblig­a­tions in the contract
At the inception of the contract, the entity should assess the goods or services that have been promised to the customer, and identify as a per­for­mance oblig­a­tion: [IFRS 15.22]
a good or service (or bundle of goods or services) that is distinct; or
a series of distinct goods or services that are sub­stan­tially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
A series of distinct goods or services is trans­ferred to the customer in the same pattern if both of the following criteria are met: [IFRS 15:23]  
each distinct good or service in the series that the entity promises to transfer con­sec­u­tively to the customer would be a per­for­mance oblig­a­tion that is satisfied over time (see below); and
a single method of measuring progress would be used to measure the entity’s progress towards complete sat­is­fac­tion of the per­for­mance oblig­a­tion to transfer each distinct good or service in the series to the customer.
A good or service is distinct if both of the following criteria are met: [IFRS 15:27]
the customer can benefit from the good or services on its own or in con­junc­tion with other readily available resources; and
the entity’s promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is sep­a­rately iden­i­ti­fa­ble from other promises in the contract.
Factors for con­sid­er­a­tion as to whether a promise to transfer goods or services to the customer is not sep­a­rately iden­ti­fi­able include, but are not limited to: [IFRS 15:29]
the entity does provide a sig­nif­i­cant service of in­te­grat­ing the goods or services with other goods or services promised in the contract;
the goods or services sig­nif­i­cantly modify or customise other goods or services promised in the contract;
the goods or services are highly in­ter­re­lated or highly in­ter­de­pen­dent.
Step 3: Determine the trans­ac­tion price
The trans­ac­tion price is the amount to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for the transfer of goods and services. When making this de­ter­mi­na­tion, an entity will consider past customary business practices. [IFRS 15:47]
Where a contract contains elements of variable con­sid­er­a­tion, the entity will estimate the amount of variable con­sid­er­a­tion to which it will be entitled under the contract. [IFRS 15:50] Variable con­sid­er­a­tion can arise, for example, as a result of discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, price con­ces­sions, in­cen­tives, per­for­mance bonuses, penalties or other similar items. Variable con­sid­er­a­tion is also present if an entity’s right to con­sid­er­a­tion is con­tin­gent on the oc­cur­rence of a future event.  [IFRS 15:51]
The standard deals with the un­cer­tainty relating to variable con­sid­er­a­tion by limiting the amount of variable con­sid­er­a­tion that can be recog­nised. Specif­i­cally, variable con­sid­er­a­tion is only included in the trans­ac­tion price if, and to the extent that, it is highly probable that its inclusion will not result in a sig­nif­i­cant revenue reversal in the future when the un­cer­tainty has been sub­se­quently resolved. [IFRS 15:56]
However, a different, more re­stric­tive approach is applied in respect of sales or us­age-based royalty revenue arising from licences of in­tel­lec­tual property. Such revenue is recog­nised only when the un­der­ly­ing sales or usage occur. [IFRS 15:B63]
Step 4: Allocate the trans­ac­tion price to the per­for­mance oblig­a­tions in the contracts
Where a contract has multiple per­for­mance oblig­a­tions, an entity will allocate the trans­ac­tion price to the per­for­mance oblig­a­tions in the contract by reference to their relative stand­alone selling prices. [IFRS 15:74] If a stand­alone selling price is not directly ob­serv­able, the entity will need to estimate it. IFRS 15 suggests various methods that might be used, including: [IFRS 15:79]
Adjusted market as­sess­ment approach
Expected cost plus a margin approach
Residual approach (only per­mis­si­ble in limited cir­cum­stances).
Any overall discount compared to the aggregate of stand­alone selling prices is allocated between per­for­mance oblig­a­tions on a relative stand­alone selling price basis. In certain cir­cum­stances, it may be ap­pro­pri­ate to allocate such a discount to some but not all of the per­for­mance oblig­a­tions. [IFRS 15:81]
Where con­sid­er­a­tion is paid in advance or in arrears, the entity will need to consider whether the contract includes a sig­nif­i­cant financing arrange­ment and, if so, adjust for the time value of money. [IFRS 15:60] A practical expedient is available where the interval between transfer of the promised goods or services and payment by the customer is expected to be less than 12 months. [IFRS 15:63]
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a per­for­mance oblig­a­tion
Revenue is recog­nised as control is passed, either over time or at a point in time. [IFRS 15:32]
Control of an asset is defined as the ability to direct the use of and obtain sub­stan­tially all of the remaining benefits from the asset. This includes the ability to prevent others from directing the use of and obtaining the benefits from the asset. The benefits related to the asset are the potential cash flows that may be obtained directly or in­di­rectly. These include, but are not limited to: [IFRS 15:31-33]
using the asset to produce goods or provide services;
using the asset to enhance the value of other assets;
using the asset to settle li­a­bil­i­ties or to reduce expenses;
selling or ex­chang­ing the asset;
pledging the asset to secure a loan; and
holding the asset.
An entity recog­nises revenue over time if one of the following criteria is met: [IFRS 15:35]
the customer si­mul­ta­ne­ously receives and consumes all of the benefits provided by the entity as the entity performs;
the entity’s per­for­mance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created; or
the entity’s per­for­mance does not create an asset with an al­ter­na­tive use to the entity and the entity has an en­force­able right to payment for per­for­mance completed to date.
If an entity does not satisfy its per­for­mance oblig­a­tion over time, it satisfies it at a point in time. Revenue will therefore be recog­nised when control is passed at a certain point in time. Factors that may indicate the point in time at which control passes include, but are not limited to: [IFRS 15:38]
the entity has a present right to payment for the asset;
the customer has legal title to the asset;
the entity has trans­ferred physical pos­ses­sion of the asset;
the customer has the sig­nif­i­cant risks and rewards related to the ownership of the asset; and
the customer has accepted the asset.
Contract costs
The in­cre­men­tal costs of obtaining a contract must be recog­nised as an asset if the entity expects to recover those costs. However, those in­cre­men­tal costs are limited to the costs that the entity would not have incurred if the contract had not been suc­cess­fully obtained (e.g. ‘success fees’ paid to agents). A practical expedient is available, allowing the in­cre­men­tal costs of obtaining a contract to be expensed if the as­so­ci­ated amor­ti­sa­tion period would be 12 months or less. [IFRS 15:91-94]
Costs incurred to fulfil a contract are recog­nised as an asset if and only if all of the following criteria are met: [IFRS 15:95]
the costs relate directly to a contract (or a specific an­tic­i­pated contract);
the costs generate  or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in sat­is­fy­ing per­for­mance oblig­a­tions in the future; and
the costs are expected to be recovered.
These include costs such as direct labour, direct materials, and the al­lo­ca­tion of overheads that relate directly to the contract. [IFRS 15:97]
The asset recog­nised in respect of the costs to obtain or fulfil a contract is amortised on a sys­tem­atic basis that is con­sis­tent with the pattern of transfer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. [IFRS 15:99]
Further useful im­ple­men­ta­tion guidance in relation to applying IFRS 15
These topics include:
Per­for­mance oblig­a­tions satisfied over time
Methods for measuring progress towards complete sat­is­fac­tion of a per­for­mance oblig­a­tion
Sale with a right of return
War­ranties
Principal versus agent con­sid­er­a­tions
Customer options for ad­di­tional goods or services
Customers’ un­ex­er­cised rights
Non-re­fund­able upfront fees
Licensing
Re­pur­chase arrange­ments
Con­sign­ment arrange­ments
Bill-and-hold arrange­ments
Customer ac­cep­tance
Dis­clo­sures of dis­ag­gre­ga­tion of revenue
These topics should be con­sid­ered carefully when applying IFRS 15.
  Pre­sen­ta­tion in financial state­ments
Contracts with customers will be presented in an entity’s statement of financial position as a contract liability, a contract asset, or a re­ceiv­able, depending on the re­la­tion­ship between the entity’s per­for­mance and the customer’s payment. [IFRS 15:105]
A contract liability is presented in the statement of financial position where a customer has paid an amount of con­sid­er­a­tion prior to the entity per­form­ing by trans­fer­ring the related good or service to the customer. [IFRS 15:106]
Where the entity has performed by trans­fer­ring a good or service to the customer and the customer has not yet paid the related con­sid­er­a­tion, a contract asset or a re­ceiv­able is presented in the statement of financial position, depending on the nature of the entity’s right to con­sid­er­a­tion. A contract asset is recog­nised when the entity’s right to con­sid­er­a­tion is con­di­tional on something other than the passage of time, for example future per­for­mance of the entity. A re­ceiv­able is recog­nised when the entity’s right to con­sid­er­a­tion is un­con­di­tional except for the passage of time.
Contract assets and re­ceiv­ables shall be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9. Any im­pair­ment relating to contracts with customers should be measured, presented and disclosed in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9. Any dif­fer­ence between the initial recog­ni­tion of a re­ceiv­able and the cor­re­spond­ing amount of revenue recog­nised should also be presented as an expense, for example, an im­pair­ment loss. [IFRS 15:107-108]
  Dis­clo­sures
The dis­clo­sure objective stated in IFRS 15 is for an entity to disclose suf­fi­cient in­for­ma­tion to enable users of financial state­ments to un­der­stand the nature, amount, timing and un­cer­tainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Therefore, an entity should disclose qual­i­ta­tive and quan­ti­ta­tive in­for­ma­tion about all of the following: [IFRS 15:110]
its contracts with customers;
the sig­nif­i­cant judgments, and changes in the judgments, made in applying the guidance to those contracts; and
any assets recog­nised from the costs to obtain or fulfil a contract with a customer.
Entities will need to consider the level of detail necessary to satisfy the dis­clo­sure objective and how much emphasis to place on each of the re­quire­ments. An entity should aggregate or dis­ag­gre­gate dis­clo­sures to ensure that useful in­for­ma­tion is not obscured. [IFRS 15:111]
In order to achieve the dis­clo­sure objective stated above, the Standard in­tro­duces a number of new dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments. Further detail about these specific re­quire­ments can be found at IFRS 15:113-129.
  Effective date and tran­si­tion
The standard should be applied in an entity’s IFRS financial state­ments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.  An entity that chooses to apply IFRS 15 earlier than 1 January 2018 should disclose this fact in its relevant financial state­ments. [IFRS 15:C1]
When first applying IFRS 15, entities should apply the standard in full for the current period, including ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion to all contracts that were not yet complete at the beginning of that period. In respect of prior periods, the tran­si­tion guidance allows entities an option to either: [IFRS 15:C3]
apply IFRS 15 in full to prior periods (with certain limited practical ex­pe­di­ents being available); or
retain prior period figures as reported under the previous standards, recog­nis­ing the cu­mu­la­tive effect of applying IFRS 15 as an ad­just­ment to the opening balance of equity as at the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion (beginning of current reporting period).
IFRS 16 — Leases
Overview
IFRS 16 specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases. The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and li­a­bil­i­ties for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the un­der­ly­ing asset has a low value. Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16’s approach to lessor accounting sub­stan­tially unchanged from its pre­de­ces­sor, IAS 17.
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
History of IFRS 16
  Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
July 2006 Added to the IASB's agenda
19 March 2009 Dis­cus­sion Paper DP/2009/1 Leases: Pre­lim­i­nary Views published Comment deadline 17 July 2009
17 August 2010 Exposure Draft ED/2010/9 Leases published Comment deadline 15 December 2010
21 July 2011 IASB/FASB announce intention to re-expose proposals ED orig­i­nally expected in first half of 2012
16 May 2013 Exposure Draft ED/2013/6 Leases published Comment deadline 13 September 2013
13 January 2016 IFRS 16 Leases published Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
14 May 2020
Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2018–2020 (lease in­cen­tives il­lus­tra­tive example). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
28 May 2020 Amended by Covid-19-Re­lated Rent Con­ces­sions (Amendment to IFRS 16) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2020
27 August 2020 Amended by Interest Rate Benchmark Reform — Phase 2 (Amend­ments to IFRS 9, IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and IFRS 16) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021
  Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
  Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
IFRS 16 — Lease liability in a sale and leaseback
  Su­per­seded Standards
IFRS 16 replaces the following standards and in­ter­pre­ta­tions:
IAS 17 Leases
IFRIC 4 De­ter­min­ing whether an Arrange­ment contains a Lease
SIC-15 Operating Leases - In­cen­tives
SIC-27 Eval­u­at­ing the Substance of Trans­ac­tions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease
  Guides
Leases — A guide to IFRS 16
  Summary of IFRS 16
Objective
IFRS 16 es­tab­lishes prin­ci­ples for the recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment, pre­sen­ta­tion and dis­clo­sure of leases, with the objective of ensuring that lessees and lessors provide relevant in­for­ma­tion that faith­fully rep­re­sents those trans­ac­tions. [IFRS 16:1]
Scope
IFRS 16 Leases applies to all leases, including subleases, except for: [IFRS 16:3]
leases to explore for or use minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-re­gen­er­a­tive resources;
leases of bi­o­log­i­cal assets held by a lessee (see IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture);
service con­ces­sion arrange­ments (see IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments);
licences of in­tel­lec­tual property granted by a lessor (see IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers); and
rights held by a lessee under licensing agree­ments for items such as films, videos, plays, man­u­scripts, patents and copy­rights within the scope of IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
A lessee can elect to apply IFRS 16 to leases of in­tan­gi­ble assets, other than those items listed above. [IFRS 16:4]
Recog­ni­tion ex­emp­tions
Instead of applying the recog­ni­tion re­quire­ments of IFRS 16 described below, a lessee may elect to account for lease payments as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term or another sys­tem­atic basis for the following two types of leases:
i) leases with a lease term of 12 months or less and con­tain­ing no purchase options – this election is made by class of un­der­ly­ing asset; and
ii) leases where the un­der­ly­ing asset has a low value when new (such as personal computers or small items of office furniture) – this election can be made on a lease-by-lease basis.
[IFRS 16:5, 6 & 8]
Iden­ti­fy­ing a lease
A contract is, or contains, a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an iden­ti­fied asset for a period of time in exchange for con­sid­er­a­tion. [IFRS 16:9]
Control is conveyed where the customer has both the right to direct the iden­ti­fied asset’s use and to obtain sub­stan­tially all the economic benefits from that use. [IFRS 16:B9]
An asset is typically iden­ti­fied by being ex­plic­itly specified in a contract, but an asset can also be iden­ti­fied by being im­plic­itly specified at the time it is made available for use by the customer.
However, where a supplier has a sub­stan­tive right of sub­sti­tu­tion through­out the period of use, a customer does not have a right to use an iden­ti­fied asset. A supplier’s right of sub­sti­tu­tion is only con­sid­ered sub­stan­tive if the supplier has both the practical ability to sub­sti­tute al­ter­na­tive assets through­out the period of use and they would eco­nom­i­cally benefit from sub­sti­tu­tion. [IFRS 16:B13-14]
A capacity portion of an asset is still an iden­ti­fied asset if it is phys­i­cally distinct (e.g. a floor of a building). A capacity or other portion of an asset that is not phys­i­cally distinct (e.g. a capacity portion of a fibre optic cable) is not an iden­ti­fied asset, unless it rep­re­sents sub­stan­tially all the capacity such that the customer obtains sub­stan­tially all the economic benefits from using the asset. [IFRS 16:B20]
Sep­a­rat­ing com­po­nents of a contract
For a contract that contains a lease component and ad­di­tional lease and non-lease com­po­nents, such as the lease of an asset and the provision of a main­te­nance service, lessees shall allocate the con­sid­er­a­tion payable on the basis of the relative stand-alone prices, which shall be estimated if ob­serv­able prices are not readily available.
As a practical expedient, a lessee may elect, by class of un­der­ly­ing asset, not to separate non-lease com­po­nents from lease com­po­nents and instead account for all com­po­nents as a lease. [IFRS 16:13-15]
Lessors shall allocate con­sid­er­a­tion in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 16: Appendix A]
Interest rate implicit in the lease
The interest rate that yields a present value of (a) the lease payments and (b) the un­guar­an­teed residual value equal to the sum of (i) the fair value of the un­der­ly­ing asset and (ii) any initial direct costs of the lessor.
Lease term
The non-can­cellable period for which a lessee has the right to use an un­der­ly­ing asset, plus:
a) periods covered by an extension option if exercise of that option by the lessee is rea­son­ably certain; and
b) periods covered by a ter­mi­na­tion option if the lessee is rea­son­ably certain not to exercise that option
Lessee’s in­cre­men­tal borrowing rate
The rate of interest that a lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic en­vi­ron­ment.
Accounting by lessees
Upon lease com­mence­ment a lessee recog­nises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. [IFRS 16:22]
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at the amount of the lease liability plus any initial direct costs incurred by the lessee. Ad­just­ments may also be required for lease in­cen­tives, payments at or prior to com­mence­ment and restora­tion oblig­a­tions or similar. [IFRS 16:24]
After lease com­mence­ment, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset using a cost model, unless: [IFRS 16:29, 34, 35]
i) the right-of-use asset is an in­vest­ment property and the lessee fair values its in­vest­ment property under IAS 40; or
ii) the right-of-use asset relates to a class of PPE to which the lessee applies IAS 16’s reval­u­a­tion model, in which case all right-of-use assets relating to that class of PPE can be revalued.
Under the cost model a right-of-use asset is measured at cost less ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion and ac­cu­mu­lated im­pair­ment. [IFRS 16:30(a)]
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments payable over the lease term, dis­counted at the rate implicit in the lease if that can be readily de­ter­mined. If that rate cannot be readily de­ter­mined, the lessee shall use their in­cre­men­tal borrowing rate. [IFRS 16:26]
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the initial mea­sure­ment of the lease liability and are initially measured using the index or rate as at the com­mence­ment date. Amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guar­an­tees are also included. [IFRS 16:27(b),(c)]
Variable lease payments that are not included in the mea­sure­ment of the lease liability are recog­nised in profit or loss in the period in which the event or condition that triggers payment occurs, unless the costs are included in the carrying amount of another asset under another Standard. [IFRS 16:38(b)
The lease liability is sub­se­quently re­mea­sured to reflect changes in: [IFRS 16:36]
the lease term (using a revised discount rate);
the as­sess­ment of a purchase option (using a revised discount rate);
the amounts expected to be payable under residual value guar­an­tees (using an unchanged discount rate); or
future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or a rate used to determine those payments (using an unchanged discount rate).
The re­mea­sure­ments are treated as ad­just­ments to the right-of-use asset. [IFRS 16:39]
Lease mod­i­fi­ca­tions may also prompt re­mea­sure­ment of the lease liability unless they are to be treated as separate leases. [IFRS 16:36(c)]
Covid-19-re­lated rent con­ces­sions 
A lessee may elect not to assess whether a COVID-19-re­lated rent con­ces­sion is a lease mod­i­fi­ca­tion. A lessee that that applies the exemption accounts for COVID-19-re­lated rent con­ces­sions as if they were not lease mod­i­fi­ca­tions. [IFRS 16:46A, 46B]
IBOR reform
A lessee accounts for mod­i­fi­ca­tions required by the IBOR reform (mod­i­fi­ca­tions required as a direct con­se­quence of the IBOR reform and made on an eco­nom­i­cally equiv­a­lent basis) by updating the effective interest rate. All other mod­i­fi­ca­tions are accounted for using the ap­plic­a­ble re­quire­ments. [IFRS 16:105-106]
Accounting by lessors
Lessors shall classify each lease as an operating lease or a finance lease. [IFRS 16:61]
A lease is clas­si­fied as a finance lease if it transfers sub­stan­tially all the risks and rewards in­ci­den­tal to ownership of an un­der­ly­ing asset. Otherwise a lease is clas­si­fied as an operating lease. [IFRS 16:62]
Examples of sit­u­a­tions that in­di­vid­u­ally or in com­bi­na­tion would normally lead to a lease being clas­si­fied as a finance lease are: [IFRS 16:63]
the lease transfers ownership of the asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term
the lessee has the option to purchase the asset at a price which is expected to be suf­fi­ciently lower than fair value at the date the option becomes ex­er­cis­able that, at the inception of the lease, it is rea­son­ably certain that the option will be exercised
the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the asset, even if title is not trans­ferred
at the inception of the lease, the present value of the minimum lease payments amounts to at least sub­stan­tially all of the fair value of the leased asset
the leased assets are of a spe­cialised nature such that only the lessee can use them without major mod­i­fi­ca­tions being made
Upon lease com­mence­ment, a lessor shall recognise assets held under a finance lease as a re­ceiv­able at an amount equal to the net in­vest­ment in the lease. [IFRS 16:67]
A lessor recog­nises finance income over the lease term of a finance lease, based on a pattern re­flect­ing a constant periodic rate of return on the net in­vest­ment. [IFRS 16:75]
At the com­mence­ment date, a man­u­fac­turer or dealer lessor recog­nises selling profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with its policy for outright sales to which IFRS 15 applies. [IFRS 16:71c)]
A lessor recog­nises operating lease payments as income on a straight-line basis or, if more rep­re­sen­ta­tive of the pattern in which benefit from use of the un­der­ly­ing asset is di­min­ished, another sys­tem­atic basis. [IFRS 16:81]
Sale and leaseback trans­ac­tions
To determine whether the transfer of an asset is accounted for as a sale an entity applies the re­quire­ments of IFRS 15 for de­ter­min­ing when a per­for­mance oblig­a­tion is satisfied. [IFRS 16:99]
If an asset transfer satisfies IFRS 15’s re­quire­ments to be accounted for as a sale the seller measures the right-of-use asset at the pro­por­tion of the previous carrying amount that relates to the right of use retained. Ac­cord­ingly, the seller only recog­nises the amount of gain or loss that relates to the rights trans­ferred to the buyer. [IFRS 16:100a)]
If the fair value of the sale con­sid­er­a­tion does not equal the asset’s fair value, or if the lease payments are not market rates, the sales proceeds are adjusted to fair value, either by accounting for pre­pay­ments or ad­di­tional financing. [IFRS 16:101]
Dis­clo­sure
The objective of IFRS 16’s dis­clo­sures is for in­for­ma­tion to be provided in the notes that, together with in­for­ma­tion provided in the statement of financial position, statement of profit or loss and statement of cash flows, gives a basis for users to assess the effect that leases have. Para­graphs 52 to 60 of IFRS 16 set out detailed re­quire­ments for lessees to meet this objective and para­graphs 90 to 97 set out the detailed re­quire­ments for lessors. [IFRS 16:51, 89]
Effective date and tran­si­tion
An entity applies IFRS 16 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted if IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers has also been applied. [IFRS 16:C1]
As a practical expedient, an entity is not required to reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion. [IFRS 16:C3]
A lessee shall either apply IFRS 16 with full ret­ro­spec­tive effect or al­ter­na­tively not restate com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion but recognise the cu­mu­la­tive effect of initially applying IFRS 16 as an ad­just­ment to opening equity at the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion. [IFRS 16:C5, C7]
IFRS 17 — Insurance Contracts
Overview
IFRS 17 es­tab­lishes the prin­ci­ples for the recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment, pre­sen­ta­tion and dis­clo­sure of insurance contracts within the scope of the standard. The objective of IFRS 17 is to ensure that an entity provides relevant in­for­ma­tion that faith­fully rep­re­sents those contracts. This in­for­ma­tion gives a basis for users of financial state­ments to assess the effect that insurance contracts have on the entity's financial position, financial per­for­mance and cash flows.
IFRS 17 was issued in May 2017 and applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023.
History of IFRS 17
  Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
September 2001 Added to the IASB's agenda
September 2004 Insurance Working Group appointed Fresh start on the project
3 May 2007 Dis­cus­sion Paper Pre­lim­i­nary Views on Insurance Contracts published Comment deadline 16 November 2007
30 July 2010 Exposure Draft ED/2010/8 Insurance Contracts published Comment deadline 30 November 2010
Fourth quarter 2010 Round­ta­bles
20 June 2013 ED/2013/7 Insurance Contracts published Comment deadline 25 October 2013
18 May 2017 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts published Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 2023 (see below)
25 June 2020 Amended by Amend­ments to IFRS 17 The amend­ments, which include a deferral of the effective date of the standard, are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
  Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
  Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
  Su­per­seded Standards
IFRS 17 replaces the following standard:
IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts
  Summary of IFRS 17
Objective
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts es­tab­lishes the prin­ci­ples for the recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment, pre­sen­ta­tion and dis­clo­sure of Insurance contracts within the scope of the Standard. The objective of IFRS 17 is to ensure that an entity provides relevant in­for­ma­tion that faith­fully rep­re­sents those contracts. This in­for­ma­tion gives a basis for users of financial state­ments to assess the effect that insurance contracts have on the entity's financial position, financial per­for­mance and cash flows. [IFRS 17:1]
Scope
An entity shall apply IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts to: [IFRS 17:3]
Insurance contracts, including rein­sur­ance contracts, it issues;
Rein­sur­ance contracts it holds; and
In­vest­ment contracts with dis­cre­tionary par­tic­i­pa­tion features it issues, provided the entity also issues insurance contracts.
Some contracts meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of an insurance contract but have as their primary purpose the provision of services for a fixed fee. Such issued contracts are in the scope of the standard, unless an entity chooses to apply to them IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and provided the following con­di­tions are met: [IFRS 17:8]
(a) the entity does not reflect an as­sess­ment of the risk as­so­ci­ated with an in­di­vid­ual customer in setting the price of the contract with that customer;
(b) the contract com­pen­sates the customer by providing a service, rather than by making cash payments to the customer; and
(c) the insurance risk trans­ferred by the contract arises primarily from the customer’s use of services rather than from un­cer­tainty over the cost of those services.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IFRS 17: Appendix A]
Insurance contract
A contract under which one party (the issuer) accepts sig­nif­i­cant insurance risk from another party (the pol­i­cy­holder) by agreeing to com­pen­sate the pol­i­cy­holder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the pol­i­cy­holder.
Portfolio of insurance contracts
Insurance contracts subject to similar risks and managed together.
Con­trac­tual service margin
A component of the carrying amount of the asset or liability for a group of insurance contracts rep­re­sent­ing the unearned profit the entity will recognise as it provides services under the insurance contracts in the group.
Insurance risk
Risk, other than financial risk, trans­ferred from the holders of a contract to the issuer.
Ful­fil­ment cash flows
An explicit, unbiased and prob­a­bil­ity-weighted estimate (i.e. expected value) of the present value of the future cash outflows less the present value of the future cash inflows that will arise as the entity fulfils insurance contracts, including a risk ad­just­ment for non-fi­nan­cial risk.
Risk ad­just­ment for non-fi­nan­cial risk
The com­pen­sa­tion an entity requires for bearing the un­cer­tainty about the amount and timing of the cash flows arising from non-fi­nan­cial risk as the entity fulfils insurance contracts.
Sep­a­rat­ing com­po­nents from an insurance contract
An insurance contract may contain one or more com­po­nents that would be within the scope of another standard if they were separate contracts. For example, an insurance contract may include an in­vest­ment component or a service component (or both). [IFRS 17:10]
The standard provides the criteria to determine when a non-in­sur­ance component is distinct from the host insurance contract.
An entity shall: [IFRS 17:11-12]
(a) Apply IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments to determine whether there is an embedded de­riv­a­tive to be separated and, if there is, how to account for such a de­riv­a­tive.
(b) Separate from a host insurance contract an in­vest­ment component if, and only if, that in­vest­ment component is distinct. The entity shall apply IFRS 9 to account for the separated in­vest­ment component.
(c) After per­form­ing the above steps, separate any promises to transfer distinct non-in­sur­ance goods or services. Such promises are accounted under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Level of ag­gre­ga­tion
IFRS 17 requires entities to identify port­fo­lios of insurance contracts, which comprises contracts that are subject to similar risks and managed together. Contracts within a product line would be expected to have similar risks and hence would be expected to be in the same portfolio if they are managed together. [IFRS 17:14]
Each portfolio of insurance contracts issues shall be divided into a minimum of: [IFRS 17:16]
A group of contracts that are onerous at initial recog­ni­tion, if any;
A group of contracts that at initial recog­ni­tion have no sig­nif­i­cant pos­si­bil­ity of becoming onerous sub­se­quently, if any; and
A group of the remaining contracts in the portfolio, if any.
An entity is not permitted to include contracts issued more than one year apart in the same group. [IFRS 17:22]
If contracts within a portfolio would fall into different groups only because law or reg­u­la­tion specif­i­cally con­strains the entity's practical ability to set a different price or level of benefits for pol­i­cy­hold­ers with different char­ac­ter­is­tics, the entity may include those contracts in the same group. [IFRS 17:20]
Recog­ni­tion
An entity shall recognise a group of insurance contracts it issues from the earliest of the following: [IFRS 17:25]
(a) the beginning of the coverage period of the group of contracts;
(b) the date when the first payment from a pol­i­cy­holder in the group becomes due; and
(c) for a group of onerous contracts, when the group becomes onerous.
Mea­sure­ment
On initial recog­ni­tion, an entity shall measure a group of insurance contracts at the total of: [IFRS 17:32]
(a) the ful­fil­ment cash flows (“FCF”), which comprise:
(i) estimates of future cash flows;
(ii) an ad­just­ment to reflect the time value of money (“TVM”) and the financial risks as­so­ci­ated with the future cash flows; and
(iii) a risk ad­just­ment for non-fi­nan­cial risk
(b) the con­trac­tual service margin (“CSM”).
An entity shall include all the future cash flows within the boundary of each contract in the group. The entity may estimate the future cash flows at a higher level of ag­gre­ga­tion and then allocate the resulting ful­fil­ment cash flows to in­di­vid­ual groups of contracts. [IFRS 17:33]
The estimates of future cash flows shall be current, explicit, unbiased, and reflect all the in­for­ma­tion available to the entity without undue cost and effort about the amount, timing and un­cer­tainty of those future cash flows. They should reflect the per­spec­tive of the entity, provided that the estimates of any relevant market variables are con­sis­tent with ob­serv­able market prices. [IFRS 17:33]
Discount rates
The discount rates applied to the estimate of cash flows shall: [IFRS 17:36]
(a) reflect the time value of money (TVM), the char­ac­ter­is­tics of the cash flows and the liquidity char­ac­ter­is­tics of the insurance contracts;
(b) be con­sis­tent with ob­serv­able current market prices (if any) of those financial in­stru­ments whose cash flow char­ac­ter­is­tics are con­sis­tent with those of the insurance contracts; and
(c) exclude the effect of factors that influence such ob­serv­able market prices but do not affect the future cash flows of the insurance contracts.
Risk ad­just­ment for non-fi­nan­cial risk
The estimate of the present value of the future cash flows is adjusted to reflect the com­pen­sa­tion that the entity requires for bearing the un­cer­tainty about the amount and timing of future cash flows that arises from non-fi­nan­cial risk. [IFRS 17:37]
Con­trac­tual service margin
The CSM rep­re­sents the unearned profit of the group of insurance contracts that the entity will recognise as it provides services in the future. This is measured on initial recog­ni­tion of a group of insurance contracts at an amount that, unless the group of contracts is onerous, results in no income or expenses arising from: [IFRS 17:38]
(a) the initial recog­ni­tion of an amount for the FCF;
(b) the dere­cog­ni­tion at that date of any asset or liability recog­nised for insurance ac­qui­si­tion cash flows; and
(c) any cash flows arising from the contracts in the group at that date.
Sub­se­quent mea­sure­ment
On sub­se­quent mea­sure­ment, the carrying amount of a group of insurance contracts at the end of each reporting period shall be the sum of: [IFRS 17:40]
(a) the liability for remaining coverage com­pris­ing:
(i) the FCF related to future services and;
(ii) the CSM of the group at that date;
(b) the liability for incurred claims, com­pris­ing the FCF related to past service allocated to the group at that date.
Onerous contracts
An insurance contract is onerous at initial recog­ni­tion if the total of the FCF, any pre­vi­ously recog­nised ac­qui­si­tion cash flows and any cash flows arising from the contract at that date is a net outflow. An entity shall recognise a loss in profit or loss for the net outflow, resulting in the carrying amount of the liability for the group being equal to the FCF and the CSM of the group being zero. [IFRS 17:47]
On sub­se­quent mea­sure­ment, if a group of insurance contracts becomes onerous (or more onerous), that excess shall be recog­nised in profit or loss. Ad­di­tion­ally, the CSM cannot increase and no revenue can be recog­nised, until the onerous amount pre­vi­ously recog­nised has been reversed in profit or loss as part of a service expense. [IFRS 17:48-49]
Premium al­lo­ca­tion approach
An entity may simplify the mea­sure­ment of the liability for remaining coverage of a group of insurance contracts using the Premium Al­lo­ca­tion Approach (PAA) on the condition that, at the inception of the group: [IFRS 17:53]
(a) the entity rea­son­ably expects that this will be a rea­son­able ap­prox­i­ma­tion of the general model, or
(b) the coverage period of each contract in the group is one year or less.
Where, at the inception of the group, an entity expects sig­nif­i­cant variances in the FCF during the period before a claim is incurred, such contracts are not eligible to apply the PAA. [IFRS 17:54]
Using the PAA, the liability for remaining coverage shall be initially recog­nised as the premiums, if any, received at initial recog­ni­tion, minus any insurance ac­qui­si­tion cash flows. Sub­se­quently the carrying amount of the liability is the carrying amount at the start of the reporting period plus the premiums received in the period, minus insurance ac­qui­si­tion cash flows, plus amor­ti­sa­tion of ac­qui­si­tion cash flows, minus the amount recog­nised as insurance revenue for coverage provided in that period, and minus any in­vest­ment component paid or trans­ferred to the liability for incurred claims. [IFRS 17:55]
Practical ex­pe­di­ents available under the PAA:
If insurance contracts in the group have a sig­nif­i­cant financing component, the liability for remaining coverage needs to be dis­counted, however, this is not required if, at initial recog­ni­tion, the entity expects that the time between providing each part of the coverage and the due date of the related premium is no more than a year. [IFRS 17:56]
In applying PAA, an entity may choose to recognise any insurance ac­qui­si­tion cash flows as an expense when it incurs those costs, provided that the coverage period at initial recog­ni­tion is no more than a year. [IFRS 17:59a]
The sim­pli­fi­ca­tions arising from the PAA do not apply to the mea­sure­ment of the group’s liability for incurred claims, measured under the general model. However, there is no need to discount those cash flows if the balance is expected to be paid or received in one year or less from the date the claims are incurred. [IFRS 17: 59b]
In­vest­ment contracts with a DPF
An in­vest­ment contract with a DPF is a financial in­stru­ment and it does not include a transfer of sig­nif­i­cant insurance risk. It is in the scope of the standard only if the issuer also issues insurance contracts. The re­quire­ments of the Standard are modified for such in­vest­ment contracts. [IFRS 17:71]
Rein­sur­ance contracts held
The re­quire­ments of the standard are modified for rein­sur­ance contracts held.
In es­ti­mat­ing the present value of future expected cash flows for rein­sur­ance contracts, entities use as­sump­tions con­sis­tent with those used for related direct insurance contracts. Ad­di­tion­ally, estimates include the risk of reinsurer’s non-per­for­mance. [IFRS 17:63]
The risk ad­just­ment for non-fi­nan­cial risk is estimated to represent the transfer of risk from the holder of the rein­sur­ance contract to the reinsurer. [IFRS 17:64]
On initial recog­ni­tion, the CSM is de­ter­mined similarly to that of direct insurance contracts issued, except that the CSM rep­re­sents net gain or loss on pur­chas­ing rein­sur­ance. On initial recog­ni­tion, this net gain or loss is deferred, unless the net loss relates to events that occurred before pur­chas­ing a rein­sur­ance contract (in which case it is expensed im­me­di­ately). [IFRS 17:65]
Sub­se­quently, rein­sur­ance contracts held are accounted similarly to insurance contracts under the general model. Changes in reinsurer’s risk of non-per­for­mance are reflected in profit or loss, and do not adjust the CSM. [IFRS 17:66-67]
Mod­i­fi­ca­tion and dere­cog­ni­tion
Mod­i­fi­ca­tion of an insurance contract
If the terms of an insurance contract are modified, an entity shall dere­cog­nise the original contract and recognise the modified contract as a new contract if there is a sub­stan­tive mod­i­fi­ca­tion, based on meeting any of the specified criteria. [IFRS 17:72]
The mod­i­fi­ca­tion is sub­stan­tive if any of the following con­di­tions are satisfied:
(a) if, had the modified terms been included at contract’s inception, this would have led to:
(i) exclusion from the Standard’s scope;
(ii) un­bundling of different embedded de­riv­a­tives;
(iii) re­de­f­i­n­i­tion of the contract boundary; or
(iv) the re­al­lo­ca­tion to a different group of contracts; or
(b) if the original contract met the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a direct par insurance contracts, but the modified contract no longer meets that de­f­i­n­i­tion, or vice versa; or
(c) the entity orig­i­nally applied the PAA, but the contract’s mod­i­fi­ca­tions made it no longer eligible for it.
Dere­cog­ni­tion
An entity shall dere­cog­nise an insurance contract when it is ex­tin­guished, or if any of the con­di­tions of a sub­stan­tive mod­i­fi­ca­tion of an insurance contract are met. [IFRS 17:74]
Pre­sen­ta­tion in the statement of financial position
An entity shall present sep­a­rately in the statement of financial position the carrying amount of groups of: [IFRS 17:78]
(a) insurance contracts issued that are assets;
(b) insurance contracts issued that are li­a­bil­i­ties;
(c) rein­sur­ance contracts held that are assets; and
(d) rein­sur­ance contracts held that are li­a­bil­i­ties.
Recog­ni­tion and pre­sen­ta­tion in the statement(s) of financial per­for­mance
An entity shall dis­ag­gre­gate the amounts recog­nised in the statement(s) of financial per­for­mance into: [IFRS 17:80]
(a) an insurance service result, com­pris­ing insurance revenue and insurance service expenses; and
(b) insurance finance income or expenses.
Income or expenses from rein­sur­ance contracts held shall be presented sep­a­rately from the expenses or income from insurance contracts issued. [IFRS 17:82]
Insurance service result
An entity shall present in profit or loss revenue arising from the groups of insurance contracts issued, and insurance service expenses arising from a group of insurance contracts it issues, com­pris­ing incurred claims and other incurred insurance service expenses. Revenue and insurance service expenses shall exclude any in­vest­ment com­po­nents. An entity shall not present premiums in the profit or loss, if that in­for­ma­tion is in­con­sis­tent with revenue presented. [IFRS 17:83-85]
Insurance finance income or expenses
Insurance finance income or expenses comprises the change in the carrying amount of the group of insurance contracts arising from: [IFRS 17:87]
(a) the effect of the time value of money and changes in the time value of money; and
(b) the effect of changes in as­sump­tions that relate to financial risk; but
(c) excluding any such changes for groups of insurance contracts with direct par­tic­i­pat­ing insurance contracts that would instead adjust the CSM.
An entity has an accounting policy choice between including all of insurance finance income or expense for the period in profit or loss, or dis­ag­gre­gat­ing it between an amount presented in profit or loss and an amount presented in other com­pre­hen­sive income (“OCI”). [IFRS 17:88-90]
Under the general model, dis­ag­gre­gat­ing means pre­sent­ing in profit or loss an amount de­ter­mined by a sys­tem­atic al­lo­ca­tion of the expected total insurance finance income or expenses over the duration of the group of contracts. On dere­cog­ni­tion of the groups amounts remaining in OCI are re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss. [IFRS 17:88, 91a]
Under the VFA, for direct par insurance contracts, only where the entity holds the un­der­ly­ing items, dis­ag­gre­gat­ing means pre­sent­ing in profit or loss as insurance finance income or expenses an amount that elim­i­nates the accounting mis­matches with the finance income or expenses arising on the un­der­ly­ing items. On dere­cog­ni­tion of the groups, the amounts pre­vi­ously recog­nised in OCI remain there. [IFRS 17:89, 91b]
Dis­clo­sures
An entity shall disclose qual­i­ta­tive and quan­ti­ta­tive in­for­ma­tion about: [IFRS 17:93]
(a) the amounts recog­nised in its financial state­ments that arise from insurance contracts;
(b) the sig­nif­i­cant judge­ments, and changes in those judge­ments, made when applying IFRS 17; and
(c) the nature and extent of the risks that arise from insurance contracts.
Effective date
IFRS 17 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted if both IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments have also been applied. [IFRS 17:C1]
Tran­si­tion
An entity shall apply the standard ret­ro­spec­tively unless im­prac­ti­ca­ble, in which case entities have the option of using either the modified ret­ro­spec­tive approach or the fair value approach. [IFRS 17:C3, C5]
Under the modified ret­ro­spec­tive approach, an entity shall utilise rea­son­able and sup­port­able in­for­ma­tion and maximise the use of in­for­ma­tion that would have been used to apply a full ret­ro­spec­tive approach, but need only use in­for­ma­tion available without undue cost or effort. Under this approach the use of hindsight is permitted, if that is the only practical source of in­for­ma­tion for the re­state­ment of prior periods. [IFRS 17: C6-C7]
Under the fair value approach, an entity de­ter­mines the CSM at the tran­si­tion date as the dif­fer­ence between the fair value of a group of insurance contracts at that date and the FCF measured at that date. Using this approach, on tran­si­tion there is no need for annual groups. [IFRS 17:C21, C24]
At the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion of the Standard, those entities already applying IFRS 9 may ret­ro­spec­tively re-des­ig­nate and re­clas­sify financial assets held in respect of ac­tiv­i­ties connected with contracts within the scope of the Standard. [IFRS 17:C30-C31]
Entities can choose not to restate IFRS 9 com­par­a­tives with any dif­fer­ence between the previous carrying amount of those financial assets and the carrying amount at the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion recog­nised in the opening equity at the date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion. Any re­state­ments of prior periods must reflect all the re­quire­ments of IFRS 9. [IFRS 17:C31]  
IAS 1 — Presentation of Financial Statements
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments sets out the overall re­quire­ments for financial state­ments, including how they should be struc­tured, the minimum re­quire­ments for their content and over­rid­ing concepts such as going concern, the accrual basis of accounting and the current/non-cur­rent dis­tinc­tion. The standard requires a complete set of financial state­ments to comprise a statement of financial position, a statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income, a statement of changes in equity and a statement of cash flows.
IAS 1 was reissued in September 2007 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
History of IAS 1
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
March 1974 Exposure Draft E1 Dis­clo­sure of Accounting Policies
January 1975 IAS 1 Dis­clo­sure of Accounting Policies issued Operative for periods beginning on or after 1 January 1975
June 1975 Exposure Draft E5 In­for­ma­tion to Be Disclosed in Financial State­ments published
October 1976 IAS 5 In­for­ma­tion to Be Disclosed in Financial State­ments issued Operative for periods beginning on or after 1 January 1975
July 1978 Exposure Draft E14 Current Assets and Current Li­a­bil­i­ties published
November 1979 IAS 13 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Current Assets and Current Li­a­bil­i­ties issued Operative for periods beginning on or after 1 January 1981
1994 IAS 1, IAS 5, and IAS 13 re­for­mat­ted
July 1996 Exposure Draft E53 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments published
August 1997 IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments (1997) issued
(Su­per­sedes IAS 1 (1975), IAS 5, and IAS 13 (1979))
Operative for periods beginning on or after 1 July 1998
18 December 2003 IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments (2003) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
18 August 2005 Amended by Amendment to IAS 1 — Capital Dis­clo­sures Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007
16 March 2006 Exposure Draft Proposed Amend­ments to IAS 1 – A Revised Pre­sen­ta­tion published Comment deadline 17 July 2006
22 June 2006 Exposure Draft Financial In­stru­ments Puttable at Fair Value and Oblig­a­tions Arising on Liq­ui­da­tion published Comment deadline 23 October 2006
6 September 2007 IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments (2007) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
14 February 2008 Amended by Puttable Financial In­stru­ments and Oblig­a­tions Arising on Liq­ui­da­tion Effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
22 May 2008 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 (clas­si­fi­ca­tion of de­riv­a­tives as current or non-cur­rent) Effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
16 April 2009 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009 (clas­si­fi­ca­tion of li­a­bil­i­ties as current) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
6 May 2010 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010 (clar­i­fi­ca­tion of statement of changes in equity) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011
27 May 2010 Exposure Draft ED/2010/5 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Items of Other Com­pre­hen­sive Income published Comment deadline 30 September 2010
16 June 2011 Amended by Pre­sen­ta­tion of Items of Other Com­pre­hen­sive Income Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012
17 May 2012 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments 2009-2011 Cycle (com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
18 December 2014
Amended by Dis­clo­sure Ini­tia­tive (Amend­ments to IAS 1) (project history)
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
31 October 2018
Amended by De­f­i­n­i­tion of Material (Amend­ments to IAS 1 and IAS 8)
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020
23 January 2020
Amended by Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of Li­a­bil­i­ties as Current or Non-cur­rent (Amend­ments to IAS 1)
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
15 July 2020
IASB defers effective date of Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of Li­a­bil­i­ties as Current or Non-cur­rent (Amend­ments to IAS 1) to 1 January 2022
The new effective ate of the January 2020 amend­ments is now 1 January 2023
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IAS 1 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-18 Con­sis­tency - Al­ter­na­tive Methods
IFRIC 17 Dis­tri­b­u­tions of Non-cash Assets to Owners
SIC-27 Eval­u­at­ing the Substance of Trans­ac­tions in the Legal Form of a Lease
SIC-29 Dis­clo­sure - Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion
Primary financial state­ments
Dis­clo­sure ini­tia­tive — Accounting policies
Summary of IAS 1
Objective of IAS 1
The objective of IAS 1 (2007) is to prescribe the basis for pre­sen­ta­tion of general purpose financial state­ments, to ensure com­pa­ra­bil­ity both with the entity's financial state­ments of previous periods and with the financial state­ments of other entities. IAS 1 sets out the overall re­quire­ments for the pre­sen­ta­tion of financial state­ments, guide­lines for their structure and minimum re­quire­ments for their content. [IAS 1.1] Standards for recog­nis­ing, measuring, and dis­clos­ing specific trans­ac­tions are addressed in other Standards and In­ter­pre­ta­tions. [IAS 1.3]
Scope
IAS 1 applies to all general purpose financial state­ments that are prepared and presented in ac­cor­dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). [IAS 1.2]
General purpose financial state­ments are those intended to serve users who are not in a position to require financial reports tailored to their par­tic­u­lar in­for­ma­tion needs. [IAS 1.7]
Objective of financial state­ments
The objective of general purpose financial state­ments is to provide in­for­ma­tion about the financial position, financial per­for­mance, and cash flows of an entity that is useful to a wide range of users in making economic decisions. To meet that objective, financial state­ments provide in­for­ma­tion about an entity's: [IAS 1.9]
assets
li­a­bil­i­ties
equity
income and expenses, including gains and losses
con­tri­bu­tions by and dis­tri­b­u­tions to owners (in their capacity as owners)
cash flows.
That in­for­ma­tion, along with other in­for­ma­tion in the notes, assists users of financial state­ments in pre­dict­ing the entity's future cash flows and, in par­tic­u­lar, their timing and certainty.
Com­po­nents of financial state­ments
A complete set of financial state­ments includes: [IAS 1.10]
a statement of financial position (balance sheet) at the end of the period
a statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income for the period (presented as a single statement, or by pre­sent­ing the profit or loss section in a separate statement of profit or loss, im­me­di­ately followed by a statement pre­sent­ing com­pre­hen­sive income beginning with profit or loss)
a statement of changes in equity for the period
a statement of cash flows for the period
notes, com­pris­ing a summary of sig­nif­i­cant accounting policies and other ex­plana­tory notes
com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion pre­scribed by the standard.
An entity may use titles for the state­ments other than those stated above.  All financial state­ments are required to be presented with equal promi­nence. [IAS 1.10] 
When an entity applies an accounting policy ret­ro­spec­tively or makes a ret­ro­spec­tive re­state­ment of items in its financial state­ments, or when it re­clas­si­fies items in its financial state­ments, it must also present a statement of financial position (balance sheet) as at the beginning of the earliest com­par­a­tive period.
Reports that are presented outside of the financial state­ments – including financial reviews by man­age­ment, en­vi­ron­men­tal reports, and value added state­ments – are outside the scope of IFRSs. [IAS 1.14]
Fair pre­sen­ta­tion and com­pli­ance with IFRSs
The financial state­ments must "present fairly" the financial position, financial per­for­mance and cash flows of an entity. Fair pre­sen­ta­tion requires the faithful rep­re­sen­ta­tion of the effects of trans­ac­tions, other events, and con­di­tions in ac­cor­dance with the de­f­i­n­i­tions and recog­ni­tion criteria for assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income and expenses set out in the Framework. The ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRSs, with ad­di­tional dis­clo­sure when necessary, is presumed to result in financial state­ments that achieve a fair pre­sen­ta­tion. [IAS 1.15]
IAS 1 requires an entity whose financial state­ments comply with IFRSs to make an explicit and un­re­served statement of such com­pli­ance in the notes. Financial state­ments cannot be described as complying with IFRSs unless they comply with all the re­quire­ments of IFRSs (which includes International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards, IFRIC In­ter­pre­ta­tions and SIC In­ter­pre­ta­tions). [IAS 1.16]
In­ap­pro­pri­ate accounting policies are not rectified either by dis­clo­sure of the accounting policies used or by notes or ex­plana­tory material. [IAS 1.18]
IAS 1 ac­knowl­edges that, in extremely rare cir­cum­stances, man­age­ment may conclude that com­pli­ance with an IFRS re­quire­ment would be so mis­lead­ing that it would conflict with the objective of financial state­ments set out in the Framework. In such a case, the entity is required to depart from the IFRS re­quire­ment, with detailed dis­clo­sure of the nature, reasons, and impact of the departure. [IAS 1.19-21]
Going concern
The Conceptual Framework notes that financial state­ments are normally prepared assuming the entity is a going concern and will continue in operation for the fore­see­able future. [Conceptual Framework, paragraph 4.1]
IAS 1 requires man­age­ment to make an as­sess­ment of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern.  If man­age­ment has sig­nif­i­cant concerns about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern, the un­cer­tain­ties must be disclosed. If man­age­ment concludes that the entity is not a going concern, the financial state­ments should not be prepared on a going concern basis, in which case IAS 1 requires a series of dis­clo­sures. [IAS 1.25]
Accrual basis of accounting
IAS 1 requires that an entity prepare its financial state­ments, except for cash flow in­for­ma­tion, using the accrual basis of accounting. [IAS 1.27]
Con­sis­tency of pre­sen­ta­tion
The pre­sen­ta­tion and clas­si­fi­ca­tion of items in the financial state­ments shall be retained from one period to the next unless a change is justified either by a change in cir­cum­stances or a re­quire­ment of a new IFRS. [IAS 1.45]
Ma­te­ri­al­ity and ag­gre­ga­tion
In­for­ma­tion is material if omitting, mis­stat­ing or obscuring it could rea­son­ably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial state­ments make on the basis of those financial state­ments, which provide financial in­for­ma­tion about a specific reporting entity. [IAS 1.7]*
Each material class of similar items must be presented sep­a­rately in the financial state­ments. Dis­sim­i­lar items may be ag­gre­gated only if they are in­di­vid­u­ally im­ma­te­r­ial. [IAS 1.29]
However, in­for­ma­tion should not be obscured by ag­gre­gat­ing or by providing im­ma­te­r­ial in­for­ma­tion, ma­te­ri­al­ity con­sid­er­a­tions apply to the all parts of the financial state­ments, and even when a standard requires a specific dis­clo­sure, ma­te­ri­al­ity con­sid­er­a­tions do apply. [IAS 1.30A-31]
* Clarified by De­f­i­n­i­tion of Material (Amend­ments to IAS 1 and IAS 8), effective 1 January 2020.
Off­set­ting
Assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, and income and expenses, may not be offset unless required or permitted by an IFRS. [IAS 1.32]
Com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion
IAS 1 requires that com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion to be disclosed in respect of the previous period for all amounts reported in the financial state­ments, both on the face of the financial state­ments and in the notes, unless another Standard requires otherwise. Com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion is provided for narrative and de­scrip­tive where it is relevant to un­der­stand­ing the financial state­ments of the current period. [IAS 1.38]
An entity is required to present at least two of each of the following primary financial state­ments: [IAS 1.38A]
statement of financial position*
statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income
separate state­ments of profit or loss (where presented)
statement of cash flows
statement of changes in equity
related notes for each of the above items.
* A third statement of financial position is required to be presented if the entity ret­ro­spec­tively applies an accounting policy, restates items, or re­clas­si­fies items, and those ad­just­ments had a material effect on the in­for­ma­tion in the statement of financial position at the beginning of the com­par­a­tive period. [IAS 1.40A]
Where com­par­a­tive amounts are changed or re­clas­si­fied, various dis­clo­sures are required. [IAS 1.41]
Structure and content of financial state­ments in general
IAS 1 requires an entity to clearly identify: [IAS 1.49-51]
the financial state­ments, which must be dis­tin­guished from other in­for­ma­tion in a published document
each financial statement and the notes to the financial state­ments.
In addition, the following in­for­ma­tion must be displayed promi­nently, and repeated as necessary: [IAS 1.51]
the name of the reporting entity and any change in the name
whether the financial state­ments are a group of entities or an in­di­vid­ual entity
in­for­ma­tion about the reporting period
the pre­sen­ta­tion currency (as defined by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates)
the level of rounding used (e.g. thousands, millions).
Reporting period
There is a pre­sump­tion that financial state­ments will be prepared at least annually. If the annual reporting period changes and financial state­ments are prepared for a different period, the entity must disclose the reason for the change and state that amounts are not entirely com­pa­ra­ble. [IAS 1.36]
Statement of financial position (balance sheet)
Current and non-cur­rent clas­si­fi­ca­tion
An entity must normally present a clas­si­fied statement of financial position, sep­a­rat­ing current and non-cur­rent assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, unless pre­sen­ta­tion based on liquidity provides in­for­ma­tion that is reliable. [IAS 1.60] In either case, if an asset (liability) category combines amounts that will be received (settled) after 12 months with assets (li­a­bil­i­ties) that will be received (settled) within 12 months, note dis­clo­sure is required that separates the longer-term amounts from the 12-month amounts. [IAS 1.61]
Current assets are assets that are: [IAS 1.66]
expected to be realised in the entity's normal operating cycle
held primarily for the purpose of trading
expected to be realised within 12 months after the reporting period
cash and cash equiv­a­lents (unless re­stricted).
All other assets are non-cur­rent. [IAS 1.66]
Current li­a­bil­i­ties are those: [IAS 1.69]
expected to be settled within the entity's normal operating cycle
held for purpose of trading
due to be settled within 12 months
for which the entity does not have the right at the end of the reporting period to defer set­tle­ment beyond 12 months.
Other li­a­bil­i­ties are non-cur­rent.
When a long-term debt is expected to be re­fi­nanced under an existing loan facility, and the entity has the dis­cre­tion to do so, the debt is clas­si­fied as non-cur­rent, even if the liability would otherwise be due within 12 months. [IAS 1.73]
If a liability has become payable on demand because an entity has breached an un­der­tak­ing under a long-term loan agreement on or before the reporting date, the liability is current, even if the lender has agreed, after the reporting date and before the au­tho­ri­sa­tion of the financial state­ments for issue, not to demand payment as a con­se­quence of the breach. [IAS 1.74] However, the liability is clas­si­fied as non-cur­rent if the lender agreed by the reporting date to provide a period of grace ending at least 12 months after the end of the reporting period, within which the entity can rectify the breach and during which the lender cannot demand immediate repayment. [IAS 1.75]
Set­tle­ment by the issue of equity in­stru­ments does not impact clas­si­fi­ca­tion. [IAS 1.76B]
Line items
The line items to be included on the face of the statement of financial position are: [IAS 1.54]
(a) property, plant and equipment
(b) in­vest­ment property
(c) in­tan­gi­ble assets
(d) financial assets (excluding amounts shown under (e), (h), and (i))
(e) in­vest­ments accounted for using the equity method
(f) bi­o­log­i­cal assets
(g) in­ven­to­ries
(h) trade and other re­ceiv­ables
(i) cash and cash equiv­a­lents
(j) assets held for sale
(k) trade and other payables
(l) pro­vi­sions
(m) financial li­a­bil­i­ties (excluding amounts shown under (k) and (l))
(n) current tax li­a­bil­i­ties and current tax assets, as defined in IAS 12
(o) deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties and deferred tax assets, as defined in IAS 12
(p) li­a­bil­i­ties included in disposal groups
(q) non-con­trol­ling interests, presented within equity
(r) issued capital and reserves at­trib­ut­able to owners of the parent.
Ad­di­tional line items, headings and subtotals may be needed to fairly present the entity's financial position. [IAS 1.55] 
When an entity presents subtotals, those subtotals shall be comprised of line items made up of amounts recog­nised and measured in ac­cor­dance with IFRS; be presented and labelled in a clear and un­der­stand­able manner; be con­sis­tent from period to period; and not be displayed with more promi­nence than the required subtotals and totals. [IAS 1.55A]*
* Added by Dis­clo­sure Ini­tia­tive (Amend­ments to IAS 1), effective 1 January 2016.
Further sub-clas­si­fi­ca­tions of line items presented are made in the statement or in the notes, for example: [IAS 1.77-78]:
classes of property, plant and equipment
dis­ag­gre­ga­tion of re­ceiv­ables
dis­ag­gre­ga­tion of in­ven­to­ries in ac­cor­dance with IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries
dis­ag­gre­ga­tion of pro­vi­sions into employee benefits and other items
classes of equity and reserves.
Format of statement
IAS 1 does not prescribe the format of the statement of financial position. Assets can be presented current then non-cur­rent, or vice versa, and li­a­bil­i­ties and equity can be presented current then non-cur­rent then equity, or vice versa. A net asset pre­sen­ta­tion (assets minus li­a­bil­i­ties) is allowed. The long-term financing approach used in UK and elsewhere – fixed assets + current assets - short term payables = long-term debt plus equity – is also ac­cept­able.
Share capital and reserves
Regarding issued share capital and reserves, the following dis­clo­sures are required: [IAS 1.79]
numbers of shares au­tho­rised, issued and fully paid, and issued but not fully paid
par value (or that shares do not have a par value)
a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the number of shares out­stand­ing at the beginning and the end of the period
de­scrip­tion of rights, pref­er­ences, and re­stric­tions
treasury shares, including shares held by sub­sidiaries and as­so­ci­ates
shares reserved for issuance under options and contracts
a de­scrip­tion of the nature and purpose of each reserve within equity.
Ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required in respect of entities without share capital and where an entity has re­clas­si­fied puttable financial in­stru­ments.  [IAS 1.80-80A]
Statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income
Concepts of profit or loss and com­pre­hen­sive income
Profit or loss is defined as "the total of income less expenses, excluding the com­po­nents of other com­pre­hen­sive income".  Other com­pre­hen­sive income is defined as com­pris­ing "items of income and expense (including re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion ad­just­ments) that are not recog­nised in profit or loss as required or permitted by other IFRSs".  Total com­pre­hen­sive income is defined as "the change in equity during a period resulting from trans­ac­tions and other events, other than those changes resulting from trans­ac­tions with owners in their capacity as owners". [IAS 1.7]
Com­pre­hen­sive income
for the period  =  Profit
or loss  +  Other
com­pre­hen­sive income
All items of income and expense recog­nised in a period must be included in profit or loss unless a Standard or an In­ter­pre­ta­tion requires otherwise. [IAS 1.88] Some IFRSs require or permit that some com­po­nents to be excluded from profit or loss and instead to be included in other com­pre­hen­sive income.
Examples of items recog­nised outside of profit or loss
Changes in reval­u­a­tion surplus where the reval­u­a­tion method is used under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
Re­mea­sure­ments of a net defined benefit liability or asset recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011)
Exchange dif­fer­ences from trans­lat­ing func­tional cur­ren­cies into pre­sen­ta­tion currency in ac­cor­dance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Gains and losses on re­mea­sur­ing avail­able-for-sale financial assets in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
The effective portion of gains and losses on hedging in­stru­ments in a cash flow hedge under IAS 39 or IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments
Gains and losses on re­mea­sur­ing an in­vest­ment in equity in­stru­ments where the entity has elected to present them in other com­pre­hen­sive income in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9
The effects of changes in the credit risk of a financial liability des­ig­nated as at fair value through profit and loss under IFRS 9.
In addition, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors requires the cor­rec­tion of errors and the effect of changes in accounting policies to be recog­nised outside profit or loss for the current period. [IAS 1.89]
Choice in pre­sen­ta­tion and basic re­quire­ments
An entity has a choice of pre­sent­ing:
a single statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income, with profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income presented in two sections, or
two state­ments:
a separate statement of profit or loss
a statement of com­pre­hen­sive income, im­me­di­ately following the statement of profit or loss and beginning with profit or loss [IAS 1.10A]
The statement(s) must present: [IAS 1.81A]
profit or loss
total other com­pre­hen­sive income
com­pre­hen­sive income for the period
an al­lo­ca­tion of profit or loss and com­pre­hen­sive income for the period between non-con­trol­ling interests and owners of the parent.
Profit or loss section or statement
The following minimum line items must be presented in the profit or loss section (or separate statement of profit or loss, if presented): [IAS 1.82-82A]
revenue
gains and losses from the dere­cog­ni­tion of financial assets measured at amortised cost
finance costs
share of the profit or loss of as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method
certain gains or losses as­so­ci­ated with the re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion of financial assets
tax expense
a single amount for the total of dis­con­tin­ued items
Expenses recog­nised in profit or loss should be analysed either by nature (raw materials, staffing costs, de­pre­ci­a­tion, etc.) or by function (cost of sales, selling, ad­min­is­tra­tive, etc). [IAS 1.99] If an entity cat­e­gorises by function, then ad­di­tional in­for­ma­tion on the nature of expenses – at a minimum de­pre­ci­a­tion, amor­ti­sa­tion and employee benefits expense – must be disclosed. [IAS 1.104]
Other com­pre­hen­sive income section
The other com­pre­hen­sive income section is required to present line items which are clas­si­fied by their nature, and grouped between those items that will or will not be re­clas­si­fied to profit and loss in sub­se­quent periods. [IAS 1.82A]
An entity's share of OCI of eq­uity-ac­counted as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures is presented in aggregate as single line items based on whether or not it will sub­se­quently be re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss. [IAS 1.82A]*
* Clarified by Dis­clo­sure Ini­tia­tive (Amend­ments to IAS 1), effective 1 January 2016.
When an entity presents subtotals, those subtotals shall be comprised of line items made up of amounts recog­nised and measured in ac­cor­dance with IFRS; be presented and labelled in a clear and un­der­stand­able manner; be con­sis­tent from period to period; not be displayed with more promi­nence than the required subtotals and totals; and rec­on­ciled with the subtotals or totals required in IFRS. [IAS 1.85A-85B]*
* Added by Dis­clo­sure Ini­tia­tive (Amend­ments to IAS 1), effective 1 January 2016.
Other re­quire­ments
Ad­di­tional line items may be needed to fairly present the entity's results of op­er­a­tions. [IAS 1.85]
Items cannot be presented as 'ex­tra­or­di­nary items' in the financial state­ments or in the notes. [IAS 1.87]
Certain items must be disclosed sep­a­rately either in the statement of com­pre­hen­sive income or in the notes, if material, including: [IAS 1.98]
write-downs of in­ven­to­ries to net re­al­is­able value or of property, plant and equipment to re­cov­er­able amount, as well as reversals of such write-downs
re­struc­tur­ings of the ac­tiv­i­ties of an entity and reversals of any pro­vi­sions for the costs of re­struc­tur­ing
disposals of items of property, plant and equipment
disposals of in­vest­ments
dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions
lit­i­ga­tion set­tle­ments
other reversals of pro­vi­sions
Statement of cash flows
Rather than setting out separate re­quire­ments for pre­sen­ta­tion of the statement of cash flows, IAS 1.111 refers to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
Statement of changes in equity
IAS 1 requires an entity to present a separate statement of changes in equity. The statement must show: [IAS 1.106]
total com­pre­hen­sive income for the period, showing sep­a­rately amounts at­trib­ut­able to owners of the parent and to non-con­trol­ling interests
the effects of any ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion of accounting policies or re­state­ments made in ac­cor­dance with IAS 8, sep­a­rately for each component of other com­pre­hen­sive income
rec­on­cil­i­a­tions between the carrying amounts at the beginning and the end of the period for each component of equity, sep­a­rately dis­clos­ing:
profit or loss
other com­pre­hen­sive income*
trans­ac­tions with owners, showing sep­a­rately con­tri­bu­tions by and dis­tri­b­u­tions to owners and changes in ownership interests in sub­sidiaries that do not result in a loss of control
* An analysis of other com­pre­hen­sive income by item is required to be presented either in the statement or in the notes. [IAS 1.106A]
The following amounts may also be presented on the face of the statement of changes in equity, or they may be presented in the notes: [IAS 1.107]
amount of dividends recog­nised as dis­tri­b­u­tions
the related amount per share.
Notes to the financial state­ments
The notes must: [IAS 1.112]
present in­for­ma­tion about the basis of prepa­ra­tion of the financial state­ments and the specific accounting policies used
disclose any in­for­ma­tion required by IFRSs that is not presented elsewhere in the financial state­ments and
provide ad­di­tional in­for­ma­tion that is not presented elsewhere in the financial state­ments but is relevant to an un­der­stand­ing of any of them
Notes are presented in a sys­tem­atic manner and cross-ref­er­enced from the face of the financial state­ments to the relevant note. [IAS 1.113]
IAS 1.114 suggests that the notes should normally be presented in the following order:*
a statement of com­pli­ance with IFRSs
a summary of sig­nif­i­cant accounting policies applied, including: [IAS 1.117]
the mea­sure­ment basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial state­ments
the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an un­der­stand­ing of the financial state­ments
sup­port­ing in­for­ma­tion for items presented on the face of the statement of financial position (balance sheet), statement(s) of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows, in the order in which each statement and each line item is presented
other dis­clo­sures, including:
con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties (see IAS 37) and un­recog­nised con­trac­tual com­mit­ments
non-fi­nan­cial dis­clo­sures, such as the entity's financial risk man­age­ment ob­jec­tives and policies (see IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures)
* Dis­clo­sure Ini­tia­tive (Amend­ments to IAS 1), effective 1 January 2016, clarifies this order just to be an example of how notes can be ordered and adds ad­di­tional examples of possible ways of ordering the notes to clarify that un­der­stand­abil­ity and com­pa­ra­bil­ity should be con­sid­ered when de­ter­min­ing the order of the notes.
Other dis­clo­sures
Judge­ments and key as­sump­tions
An entity must disclose, in the summary of sig­nif­i­cant accounting policies or other notes, the judge­ments, apart from those involving es­ti­ma­tions, that man­age­ment has made in the process of applying the entity's accounting policies that have the most sig­nif­i­cant effect on the amounts recog­nised in the financial state­ments. [IAS 1.122]
Examples cited in IAS 1.123 include man­age­ment's judge­ments in de­ter­min­ing:
when sub­stan­tially all the sig­nif­i­cant risks and rewards of ownership of financial assets and lease assets are trans­ferred to other entities
whether, in substance, par­tic­u­lar sales of goods are financing arrange­ments and therefore do not give rise to revenue.
An entity must also disclose, in the notes, in­for­ma­tion about the key as­sump­tions con­cern­ing the future, and other key sources of es­ti­ma­tion un­cer­tainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a sig­nif­i­cant risk of causing a material ad­just­ment to the carrying amounts of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties within the next financial year. [IAS 1.125] These dis­clo­sures do not involve dis­clos­ing budgets or forecasts. [IAS 1.130]
Dividends
In addition to the dis­tri­b­u­tions in­for­ma­tion in the statement of changes in equity (see above), the following must be disclosed in the notes: [IAS 1.137]
the amount of dividends proposed or declared before the financial state­ments were au­tho­rised for issue but which were not recog­nised as a dis­tri­b­u­tion to owners during the period, and the related amount per share
the amount of any cu­mu­la­tive pref­er­ence dividends not recog­nised.
Capital dis­clo­sures
An entity discloses in­for­ma­tion about its ob­jec­tives, policies and processes for managing capital. [IAS 1.134] To comply with this, the dis­clo­sures include: [IAS 1.135]
qual­i­ta­tive in­for­ma­tion about the entity's ob­jec­tives, policies and processes for managing capital, including>
de­scrip­tion of capital it manages
nature of external capital re­quire­ments, if any
how it is meeting its ob­jec­tives
quan­ti­ta­tive data about what the entity regards as capital
changes from one period to another
whether the entity has complied with any external capital re­quire­ments and
if it has not complied, the con­se­quences of such non-com­pli­ance.
Puttable financial in­stru­ments
IAS 1.136A requires the following ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures if an entity has a puttable in­stru­ment that is clas­si­fied as an equity in­stru­ment:
summary quan­ti­ta­tive data about the amount clas­si­fied as equity
the entity's ob­jec­tives, policies and processes for managing its oblig­a­tion to re­pur­chase or redeem the in­stru­ments when required to do so by the in­stru­ment holders, including any changes from the previous period
the expected cash outflow on re­demp­tion or re­pur­chase of that class of financial in­stru­ments and
in­for­ma­tion about how the expected cash outflow on re­demp­tion or re­pur­chase was de­ter­mined.
Other in­for­ma­tion
The following other note dis­clo­sures are required by IAS 1 if not disclosed elsewhere in in­for­ma­tion published with the financial state­ments: [IAS 1.138]
domicile and legal form of the entity
country of in­cor­po­ra­tion
address of reg­is­tered office or principal place of business
de­scrip­tion of the entity's op­er­a­tions and principal ac­tiv­i­ties
if it is part of a group, the name of its parent and the ultimate parent of the group
if it is a limited life entity, in­for­ma­tion regarding the length of the life
Ter­mi­nol­ogy
The 2007 com­pre­hen­sive revision to IAS 1 in­tro­duced some new ter­mi­nol­ogy. Con­se­quen­tial amend­ments were made at that time to all of the other existing IFRSs, and the new ter­mi­nol­ogy has been used in sub­se­quent IFRSs including amend­ments. IAS 1.8 states: "Although this Standard uses the terms 'other com­pre­hen­sive income', 'profit or loss' and 'total com­pre­hen­sive income', an entity may use other terms to describe the totals as long as the meaning is clear. For example, an entity may use the term 'net income' to describe profit or loss." Also, IAS 1.57(b) states: "The de­scrip­tions used and the ordering of items or ag­gre­ga­tion of similar items may be amended according to the nature of the entity and its trans­ac­tions, to provide in­for­ma­tion that is relevant to an un­der­stand­ing of the entity's financial position."
Term before 2007 revision of IAS 1 Term as amended by IAS 1 (2007)
balance sheet statement of financial position
cash flow statement statement of cash flows
income statement statement of com­pre­hen­sive income (income statement is retained in case of a two-state­ment approach)
recog­nised in the income statement recog­nised in profit or loss
recog­nised [directly] in equity (only for OCI com­po­nents) recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income
recog­nised [directly] in equity (for recog­ni­tion both in OCI and equity) recog­nised outside profit or loss (either in OCI or equity)
removed from equity and recog­nised in profit or loss ('recycling') re­clas­si­fied from equity to profit or loss as a re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion ad­just­ment
Standard or/and In­ter­pre­ta­tion IFRSs
on the face of in
equity holders owners (exception for 'ordinary equity holders')
balance sheet date end of the reporting period
reporting date end of the reporting period
after the balance sheet date after the reporting period
IAS 2 — Inventories
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries contains the re­quire­ments on how to account for most types of inventory. The standard requires in­ven­to­ries to be measured at the lower of cost and net re­al­is­able value (NRV) and outlines ac­cept­able methods of de­ter­min­ing cost, including specific iden­ti­fi­ca­tion (in some cases), first-in first-out (FIFO) and weighted average cost.
A revised version of IAS 2 was issued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IAS 2
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
September 1974 Exposure Draft E2 Valuation and Pre­sen­ta­tion of In­ven­to­ries in the Context of the His­tor­i­cal Cost System published
October 1975 IAS 2 Valuation and Pre­sen­ta­tion of In­ven­to­ries in the Context of the His­tor­i­cal Cost System issued
August 1991 Exposure Draft E38 In­ven­to­ries published
December 1993 IAS 9 (1993) In­ven­to­ries issued Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1995
18 December 2003 IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Pro­duc­tion Phase of a Surface Mine
SIC-1 Con­sis­tency - Different Cost Formulas for In­ven­to­ries. SIC-1 was su­per­seded by and in­cor­po­rated into IAS 2 (Revised 2003).
Summary of IAS 2
Objective of IAS 2
The objective of IAS 2 is to prescribe the accounting treatment for in­ven­to­ries. It provides guidance for de­ter­min­ing the cost of in­ven­to­ries and for sub­se­quently recog­nis­ing an expense, including any write-down to net re­al­is­able value. It also provides guidance on the cost formulas that are used to assign costs to in­ven­to­ries.
Scope
In­ven­to­ries include assets held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished goods), assets in the pro­duc­tion process for sale in the ordinary course of business (work in process), and materials and supplies that are consumed in pro­duc­tion (raw materials). [IAS 2.6]
However, IAS 2 excludes certain in­ven­to­ries from its scope: [IAS 2.2]
work in process arising under con­struc­tion contracts (see IAS 11 Con­struc­tion Contracts)
financial in­stru­ments (see IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment)
bi­o­log­i­cal assets related to agri­cul­tural activity and agri­cul­tural produce at the point of harvest (see IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture).
Also, while the following are within the scope of the standard, IAS 2 does not apply to the mea­sure­ment of in­ven­to­ries held by: [IAS 2.3]
producers of agri­cul­tural and forest products, agri­cul­tural produce after harvest, and minerals and mineral products, to the extent that they are measured at net re­al­is­able value (above or below cost) in ac­cor­dance with well-es­tab­lished practices in those in­dus­tries. When such in­ven­to­ries are measured at net re­al­is­able value, changes in that value are recog­nised in profit or loss in the period of the change
commodity brokers and dealers who measure their in­ven­to­ries at fair value less costs to sell. When such in­ven­to­ries are measured at fair value less costs to sell, changes in fair value less costs to sell are recog­nised in profit or loss in the period of the change.
Fun­da­men­tal principle of IAS 2
In­ven­to­ries are required to be stated at the lower of cost and net re­al­is­able value (NRV). [IAS 2.9]
Mea­sure­ment of in­ven­to­ries
Cost should include all: [IAS 2.10]
costs of purchase (including taxes, transport, and handling) net of trade discounts received
costs of con­ver­sion (including fixed and variable man­u­fac­tur­ing overheads) and
other costs incurred in bringing the in­ven­to­ries to their present location and condition
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs iden­ti­fies some limited cir­cum­stances where borrowing costs (interest) can be included in cost of in­ven­to­ries that meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a qual­i­fy­ing asset. [IAS 2.17 and IAS 23.4]
Inventory cost should not include: [IAS 2.16 and 2.18]
abnormal waste
storage costs
ad­min­is­tra­tive overheads unrelated to pro­duc­tion
selling costs
foreign exchange dif­fer­ences arising directly on the recent ac­qui­si­tion of in­ven­to­ries invoiced in a foreign currency
interest cost when in­ven­to­ries are purchased with deferred set­tle­ment terms.
The standard cost and retail methods may be used for the mea­sure­ment of cost, provided that the results ap­prox­i­mate actual cost. [IAS 2.21-22]
For inventory items that are not in­ter­change­able, specific costs are at­trib­uted to the specific in­di­vid­ual items of inventory. [IAS 2.23]
For items that are in­ter­change­able, IAS 2 allows the FIFO or weighted average cost formulas. [IAS 2.25] The LIFO formula, which had been allowed prior to the 2003 revision of IAS 2, is no longer allowed.
The same cost formula should be used for all in­ven­to­ries with similar char­ac­ter­is­tics as to their nature and use to the entity. For groups of in­ven­to­ries that have different char­ac­ter­is­tics, different cost formulas may be justified. [IAS 2.25]
Write-down to net re­al­is­able value
NRV is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated cost of com­ple­tion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. [IAS 2.6] Any write-down to NRV should be recog­nised as an expense in the period in which the write-down occurs. Any reversal should be recog­nised in the income statement in the period in which the reversal occurs. [IAS 2.34]
Expense recog­ni­tion
IAS 18 Revenue addresses revenue recog­ni­tion for the sale of goods. When in­ven­to­ries are sold and revenue is recog­nised, the carrying amount of those in­ven­to­ries is recog­nised as an expense (often called cost-of-goods-sold). Any write-down to NRV and any inventory losses are also recog­nised as an expense when they occur. [IAS 2.34]
Dis­clo­sure
Required dis­clo­sures: [IAS 2.36]
accounting policy for in­ven­to­ries
carrying amount, generally clas­si­fied as mer­chan­dise, supplies, materials, work in progress, and finished goods. The clas­si­fi­ca­tions depend on what is ap­pro­pri­ate for the entity
carrying amount of any in­ven­to­ries carried at fair value less costs to sell
amount of any write-down of in­ven­to­ries recog­nised as an expense in the period
amount of any reversal of a write-down to NRV and the cir­cum­stances that led to such reversal
carrying amount of in­ven­to­ries pledged as security for li­a­bil­i­ties
cost of in­ven­to­ries recog­nised as expense (cost of goods sold).
IAS 2 ac­knowl­edges that some en­ter­prises classify income statement expenses by nature (materials, labour, and so on) rather than by function (cost of goods sold, selling expense, and so on). Ac­cord­ingly, as an al­ter­na­tive to dis­clos­ing cost of goods sold expense, IAS 2 allows an entity to disclose operating costs recog­nised during the period by nature of the cost (raw materials and con­sum­ables, labour costs, other operating costs) and the amount of the net change in in­ven­to­ries for the period). [IAS 2.39] This is con­sis­tent with IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments, which allows pre­sen­ta­tion of expenses by function or nature.
IAS 7 — Statement of Cash Flows
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows requires an entity to present a statement of cash flows as an integral part of its primary financial state­ments. Cash flows are clas­si­fied and presented into operating ac­tiv­i­ties (either using the 'direct' or 'indirect' method), investing ac­tiv­i­ties or financing ac­tiv­i­ties, with the latter two cat­e­gories generally presented on a gross basis.
IAS 7 was reissued in December 1992, retitled in September 2007, and is operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1994.
History of IAS 7
June 1976 Exposure Draft E7 Statement of Source and Ap­pli­ca­tion of Funds
October 1977 IAS 7 Statement of Changes in Financial Position
July 1991 Exposure Draft E36 Cash Flow State­ments
December 1992 IAS 7 (1992) Cash Flow State­ments
1 January 1994 Effective date of IAS 7 (1992)
6 September 2007 Retitled from Cash Flow State­ments to Statement of Cash Flows as a con­se­quen­tial amendment resulting from revisions to IAS 1
16 April 2009 IAS 7 amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009 with respect to ex­pen­di­tures that do not result in a recog­nised asset.
1 July 2009 Effective date for amend­ments from IAS 27(2008) relating to changes in ownership of a sub­sidiary
1 January 2010 Effective date of the April 2009 revisions to IAS 7
29 January 2016 Amended by Dis­clo­sure Ini­tia­tive (Amend­ments to IAS 7)
1 January 2017 Effective date of the January 2016 revisions to IAS 7
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Dis­clo­sure ini­tia­tive – Prin­ci­ples of dis­clo­sure
Summary of IAS 7
Objective of IAS 7
The objective of IAS 7 is to require the pre­sen­ta­tion of in­for­ma­tion about the his­tor­i­cal changes in cash and cash equiv­a­lents of an entity by means of a statement of cash flows, which clas­si­fies cash flows during the period according to operating, investing, and financing ac­tiv­i­ties.
Fun­da­men­tal principle in IAS 7
All entities that prepare financial state­ments in con­for­mity with IFRSs are required to present a statement of cash flows. [IAS 7.1]
The statement of cash flows analyses changes in cash and cash equiv­a­lents during a period. Cash and cash equiv­a­lents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with short-term, highly liquid in­vest­ments that are readily con­vert­ible to a known amount of cash, and that are subject to an in­signif­i­cant risk of changes in value. Guidance notes indicate that an in­vest­ment normally meets the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a cash equiv­a­lent when it has a maturity of three months or less from the date of ac­qui­si­tion. Equity in­vest­ments are normally excluded, unless they are in substance a cash equiv­a­lent (e.g. preferred shares acquired within three months of their specified re­demp­tion date). Bank over­drafts which are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of an entity's cash man­age­ment are also included as a component of cash and cash equiv­a­lents. [IAS 7.7-8]
Pre­sen­ta­tion of the Statement of Cash Flows
Cash flows must be analysed between operating, investing and financing ac­tiv­i­ties. [IAS 7.10]
Key prin­ci­ples specified by IAS 7 for the prepa­ra­tion of a statement of cash flows are as follows:
operating ac­tiv­i­ties are the main rev­enue-pro­duc­ing ac­tiv­i­ties of the entity that are not investing or financing ac­tiv­i­ties, so operating cash flows include cash received from customers and cash paid to suppliers and employees [IAS 7.14]
investing ac­tiv­i­ties are the ac­qui­si­tion and disposal of long-term assets and other in­vest­ments that are not con­sid­ered to be cash equiv­a­lents [IAS 7.6]
financing ac­tiv­i­ties are ac­tiv­i­ties that alter the equity capital and borrowing structure of the entity [IAS 7.6]
interest and dividends received and paid may be clas­si­fied as operating, investing, or financing cash flows, provided that they are clas­si­fied con­sis­tently from period to period [IAS 7.31]
cash flows arising from taxes on income are normally clas­si­fied as operating, unless they can be specif­i­cally iden­ti­fied with financing or investing ac­tiv­i­ties [IAS 7.35]
for operating cash flows, the direct method of pre­sen­ta­tion is en­cour­aged, but the indirect method is ac­cept­able [IAS 7.18]
The direct method shows each major class of gross cash receipts and gross cash payments. The operating cash flows section of the statement of cash flows under the direct method would appear something like this:
Cash receipts from customers xx,xxx
Cash paid to suppliers xx,xxx
Cash paid to employees xx,xxx
Cash paid for other operating expenses xx,xxx
Interest paid xx,xxx
Income taxes paid xx,xxx
Net cash from operating ac­tiv­i­ties xx,xxx
The indirect method adjusts accrual basis net profit or loss for the effects of non-cash trans­ac­tions. The operating cash flows section of the statement of cash flows under the indirect method would appear something like this:
Profit before interest and income taxes xx,xxx
Add back de­pre­ci­a­tion xx,xxx
Add back im­pair­ment of assets xx,xxx
Increase in re­ceiv­ables xx,xxx
Decrease in in­ven­to­ries xx,xxx
Increase in trade payables xx,xxx
Interest expense xx,xxx
Less Interest accrued but not yet paid xx,xxx
Interest paid xx,xxx
Income taxes paid xx,xxx
Net cash from operating ac­tiv­i­ties xx,xxx
the exchange rate used for trans­la­tion of trans­ac­tions de­nom­i­nated in a foreign currency should be the rate in effect at the date of the cash flows [IAS 7.25]
cash flows of foreign sub­sidiaries should be trans­lated at the exchange rates pre­vail­ing when the cash flows took place [IAS 7.26]
as regards the cash flows of as­so­ci­ates, joint ventures, and sub­sidiaries, where the equity or cost method is used, the statement of cash flows should report only cash flows between the investor and the investee; where pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion is used, the cash flow statement should include the venturer's share of the cash flows of the investee [IAS 7.37]
aggregate cash flows relating to ac­qui­si­tions and disposals of sub­sidiaries and other business units should be presented sep­a­rately and clas­si­fied as investing ac­tiv­i­ties, with specified ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures. [IAS 7.39] The aggregate cash paid or received as con­sid­er­a­tion should be reported net of cash and cash equiv­a­lents acquired or disposed of [IAS 7.42]
cash flows from investing and financing ac­tiv­i­ties should be reported gross by major class of cash receipts and major class of cash payments except for the following cases, which may be reported on a net basis: [IAS 7.22-24]
cash receipts and payments on behalf of customers (for example, receipt and repayment of demand deposits by banks, and receipts collected on behalf of and paid over to the owner of a property)
cash receipts and payments for items in which the turnover is quick, the amounts are large, and the ma­tu­ri­ties are short, generally less than three months (for example, charges and col­lec­tions from credit card customers, and purchase and sale of in­vest­ments)
cash receipts and payments relating to deposits by financial in­sti­tu­tions
cash advances and loans made to customers and re­pay­ments thereof
investing and financing trans­ac­tions which do not require the use of cash should be excluded from the statement of cash flows, but they should be sep­a­rately disclosed elsewhere in the financial state­ments [IAS 7.43]
entities shall provide dis­clo­sures that enable users of financial state­ments to evaluate changes in li­a­bil­i­ties arising from financing ac­tiv­i­ties [IAS 7.44A-44E]*
the com­po­nents of cash and cash equiv­a­lents should be disclosed, and a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion presented to amounts reported in the statement of financial position [IAS 7.45]
the amount of cash and cash equiv­a­lents held by the entity that is not available for use by the group should be disclosed, together with a com­men­tary by man­age­ment [IAS 7.48]
* Added by Dis­clo­sure Ini­tia­tive amend­ments, effective 1 January 2017.
  You will find sample IFRS state­ments of cash flows in our Model IFRS financial state­ments.
IAS 8 — Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors is applied in selecting and applying accounting policies, accounting for changes in estimates and re­flect­ing cor­rec­tions of prior period errors.
The standard requires com­pli­ance with any specific IFRS applying to a trans­ac­tion, event or condition, and provides guidance on de­vel­op­ing accounting policies for other items that result in relevant and reliable in­for­ma­tion. Changes in accounting policies and cor­rec­tions of errors are generally ret­ro­spec­tively accounted for, whereas changes in accounting estimates are generally accounted for on a prospec­tive basis.
IAS 8 was reissued in December 2005 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IAS 8
October 1976 Exposure Draft E8 The Treatment in the Income Statement of Unusual Items and Changes in Accounting Estimates and Accounting Policies
February 1978 IAS 8 Unusual and Prior Period Items and Changes in Accounting Policies
July 1992 Exposure Draft E46 Ex­tra­or­di­nary Items, Fun­da­men­tal Errors and Changes in Accounting Policies
December 1993 IAS 8 (1993) Net Profit or Loss for the Period, Fun­da­men­tal Errors and Changes in Accounting Policies (revised as part of the 'Com­pa­ra­bil­ity of Financial State­ments' project)
1 January 1995 Effective date of IAS 8 (1993)
18 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 8 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 8 (2003)
31 October 2018 Amended by De­f­i­n­i­tion of Material (Amend­ments to IAS 1 and IAS 8)
1 January 2020 Effective date of October 2018 amend­ments
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IAS 8(2003) su­per­sedes SIC-2 Con­sis­tency - Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of Borrowing Costs
IAS 8(2003) su­per­sedes SIC-18 Con­sis­tency - Al­ter­na­tive Methods.
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Dis­clo­sure ini­tia­tive – Prin­ci­ples of dis­clo­sure
Dis­clo­sure ini­tia­tive — Changes in accounting policies and estimates
Summary of IAS 8
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 8.5]
Accounting policies are the specific prin­ci­ples, bases, con­ven­tions, rules and practices applied by an entity in preparing and pre­sent­ing financial state­ments.
A change in accounting estimate is an ad­just­ment of the carrying amount of an asset or liability, or related expense, resulting from re­assess­ing the expected future benefits and oblig­a­tions as­so­ci­ated with that asset or liability.
International Financial Reporting Standardsare standards and in­ter­pre­ta­tions adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). They comprise:
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
International Accounting Standards (IASs)
In­ter­pre­ta­tions developed by the International Financial Reporting In­ter­pre­ta­tions Committee (IFRIC) or the former Standing In­ter­pre­ta­tions Committee (SIC) and approved by the IASB.
Ma­te­ri­al­ity. In­for­ma­tion is material if omitting, mis­stat­ing or obscuring it could rea­son­ably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial state­ments make on the basis of those financial state­ments, which provide financial in­for­ma­tion about a specific reporting entity.*
Prior period errors are omissions from, and mis­state­ments in, an entity's financial state­ments for one or more prior periods arising from a failure to use, or misuse of, reliable in­for­ma­tion that was available and could rea­son­ably be expected to have been obtained and taken into account in preparing those state­ments. Such errors result from math­e­mat­i­cal mistakes, mistakes in applying accounting policies, over­sights or mis­in­ter­pre­ta­tions of facts, and fraud.
* Clarified by De­f­i­n­i­tion of Material (Amend­ments to IAS 1 and IAS 8), effective 1 January 2020.
Selection and ap­pli­ca­tion of accounting policies
When a Standard or an In­ter­pre­ta­tion specif­i­cally applies to a trans­ac­tion, other event or condition, the accounting policy or policies applied to that item must be de­ter­mined by applying the Standard or In­ter­pre­ta­tion and con­sid­er­ing any relevant Im­ple­men­ta­tion Guidance issued by the IASB for the Standard or In­ter­pre­ta­tion. [IAS 8.7]
In the absence of a Standard or an In­ter­pre­ta­tion that specif­i­cally applies to a trans­ac­tion, other event or condition, man­age­ment must use its judgement in de­vel­op­ing and applying an accounting policy that results in in­for­ma­tion that is relevant and reliable. [IAS 8.10]. In making that judgement, man­age­ment must refer to, and consider the ap­plic­a­bil­ity of, the following sources in de­scend­ing order:
the re­quire­ments and guidance in IASB standards and in­ter­pre­ta­tions dealing with similar and related issues; and
the de­f­i­n­i­tions, recog­ni­tion criteria and mea­sure­ment concepts for assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income and expenses in the Framework. [IAS 8.11]
Man­age­ment may also consider the most recent pro­nounce­ments of other stan­dard-set­ting bodies that use a similar conceptual framework to develop accounting standards, other accounting lit­er­a­ture and accepted industry practices, to the extent that these do not conflict with the sources in paragraph 11. [IAS 8.12]
Con­sis­tency of accounting policies
An entity shall select and apply its accounting policies con­sis­tently for similar trans­ac­tions, other events and con­di­tions, unless a Standard or an In­ter­pre­ta­tion specif­i­cally requires or permits cat­e­gori­sa­tion of items for which different policies may be ap­pro­pri­ate. If a Standard or an In­ter­pre­ta­tion requires or permits such cat­e­gori­sa­tion, an ap­pro­pri­ate accounting policy shall be selected and applied con­sis­tently to each category. [IAS 8.13]
Changes in accounting policies
An entity is permitted to change an accounting policy only if the change:
is required by a standard or in­ter­pre­ta­tion; or
results in the financial state­ments providing reliable and more relevant in­for­ma­tion about the effects of trans­ac­tions, other events or con­di­tions on the entity's financial position, financial per­for­mance, or cash flows. [IAS 8.14]
Note that changes in accounting policies do not include applying an accounting policy to a kind of trans­ac­tion or event that did not occur pre­vi­ously or were im­ma­te­r­ial. [IAS 8.16]
If a change in accounting policy is required by a new IASB standard or in­ter­pre­ta­tion, the change is accounted for as required by that new pro­nounce­ment or, if the new pro­nounce­ment does not include specific tran­si­tion pro­vi­sions, then the change in accounting policy is applied ret­ro­spec­tively. [IAS 8.19]
Ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion means adjusting the opening balance of each affected component of equity for the earliest prior period presented and the other com­par­a­tive amounts disclosed for each prior period presented as if the new accounting policy had always been applied. [IAS 8.22]
However, if it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble to determine either the pe­riod-spe­cific effects or the cu­mu­la­tive effect of the change for one or more prior periods presented, the entity shall apply the new accounting policy to the carrying amounts of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties as at the beginning of the earliest period for which ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion is prac­ti­ca­ble, which may be the current period, and shall make a cor­re­spond­ing ad­just­ment to the opening balance of each affected component of equity for that period. [IAS 8.24]
Also, if it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble to determine the cu­mu­la­tive effect, at the beginning of the current period, of applying a new accounting policy to all prior periods, the entity shall adjust the com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion to apply the new accounting policy prospec­tively from the earliest date prac­ti­ca­ble. [IAS 8.25]
Dis­clo­sures relating to changes in accounting policies
Dis­clo­sures relating to changes in accounting policy caused by a new standard or in­ter­pre­ta­tion include: [IAS 8.28]
the title of the standard or in­ter­pre­ta­tion causing the change
the nature of the change in accounting policy
a de­scrip­tion of the tran­si­tional pro­vi­sions, including those that might have an effect on future periods
for the current period and each prior period presented, to the extent prac­ti­ca­ble, the amount of the ad­just­ment:
for each financial statement line item affected, and
for basic and diluted earnings per share (only if the entity is applying IAS 33)
the amount of the ad­just­ment relating to periods before those presented, to the extent prac­ti­ca­ble
if ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion is im­prac­ti­ca­ble, an ex­pla­na­tion and de­scrip­tion of how the change in accounting policy was applied.
Financial state­ments of sub­se­quent periods need not repeat these dis­clo­sures.
Dis­clo­sures relating to voluntary changes in accounting policy include: [IAS 8.29]
the nature of the change in accounting policy
the reasons why applying the new accounting policy provides reliable and more relevant in­for­ma­tion
for the current period and each prior period presented, to the extent prac­ti­ca­ble, the amount of the ad­just­ment:
for each financial statement line item affected, and
for basic and diluted earnings per share (only if the entity is applying IAS 33)
the amount of the ad­just­ment relating to periods before those presented, to the extent prac­ti­ca­ble
if ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion is im­prac­ti­ca­ble, an ex­pla­na­tion and de­scrip­tion of how the change in accounting policy was applied.
Financial state­ments of sub­se­quent periods need not repeat these dis­clo­sures.
If an entity has not applied a new standard or in­ter­pre­ta­tion that has been issued but is not yet effective, the entity must disclose that fact and any and known or rea­son­ably estimable in­for­ma­tion relevant to assessing the possible impact that the new pro­nounce­ment will have in the year it is applied. [IAS 8.30]
Changes in accounting estimates
The effect of a change in an accounting estimate shall be recog­nised prospec­tively by including it in profit or loss in: [IAS 8.36]
the period of the change, if the change affects that period only, or
the period of the change and future periods, if the change affects both.
However, to the extent that a change in an accounting estimate gives rise to changes in assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, or relates to an item of equity, it is recog­nised by adjusting the carrying amount of the related asset, liability, or equity item in the period of the change. [IAS 8.37]
Dis­clo­sures relating to changes in accounting estimates
Disclose:
the nature and amount of a change in an accounting estimate that has an effect in the current period or is expected to have an effect in future periods
if the amount of the effect in future periods is not disclosed because es­ti­mat­ing it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble, an entity shall disclose that fact. [IAS 8.39-40]
Errors
The general principle in IAS 8 is that an entity must correct all material prior period errors ret­ro­spec­tively in the first set of financial state­ments au­tho­rised for issue after their discovery by: [IAS 8.42]
restating the com­par­a­tive amounts for the prior period(s) presented in which the error occurred; or
if the error occurred before the earliest prior period presented, restating the opening balances of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties and equity for the earliest prior period presented.
However, if it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble to determine the pe­riod-spe­cific effects of an error on com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion for one or more prior periods presented, the entity must restate the opening balances of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, and equity for the earliest period for which ret­ro­spec­tive re­state­ment is prac­ti­ca­ble (which may be the current period). [IAS 8.44]
Further, if it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble to determine the cu­mu­la­tive effect, at the beginning of the current period, of an error on all prior periods, the entity must restate the com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion to correct the error prospec­tively from the earliest date prac­ti­ca­ble. [IAS 8.45]
Dis­clo­sures relating to prior period errors
Dis­clo­sures relating to prior period errors include: [IAS 8.49]
the nature of the prior period error
for each prior period presented, to the extent prac­ti­ca­ble, the amount of the cor­rec­tion:
for each financial statement line item affected, and
for basic and diluted earnings per share (only if the entity is applying IAS 33)
the amount of the cor­rec­tion at the beginning of the earliest prior period presented
if ret­ro­spec­tive re­state­ment is im­prac­ti­ca­ble, an ex­pla­na­tion and de­scrip­tion of how the error has been corrected.
Financial state­ments of sub­se­quent periods need not repeat these dis­clo­sures.
IAS 10 — Events After the Reporting Period
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 10 Events After The Reporting Period contains re­quire­ments for when events after the end of the reporting period should be adjusted in the financial state­ments. Adjusting events are those providing evidence of con­di­tions existing at the end of the reporting period, whereas non-ad­just­ing events are in­dica­tive of con­di­tions arising after the reporting period (the latter being disclosed where material).
IAS 10 was reissued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IAS 10
July 1977 Exposure Draft E10 Con­tin­gen­cies and Events Occurring After the Balance Sheet Date
October 1978 IAS 10 Con­tin­gen­cies and Events Occurring After the Balance Sheet Date effective 1 January 1980
1994 IAS 10 (1978) was re­for­mat­ted
August 1997 Exposure Draft E59 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
September 1998 IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
1 July 1999 Effective date of IAS 37, which su­per­seded those portions of IAS 10 (1978) dealing with con­tin­gen­cies
November 1998 Exposure Draft E63 Events After the Balance Sheet Date
May 1999 IAS 10 (1999) Events After the Balance Sheet Date su­per­seded those portions of IAS 10 (1978) dealing with events after the balance sheet date
1 January 2000 Effective date of IAS 10 (1999)
18 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 10 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 10 (Revised 2003)
6 September 2007 Retitled Events after the Reporting Period as a con­se­quen­tial amendment resulting from revisions to IAS 1
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Summary of IAS 10
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
Event after the reporting period: An event, which could be favourable or un­favourable, that occurs between the end of the reporting period and the date that the financial state­ments are au­tho­rised for issue. [IAS 10.3]
Adjusting event: An event after the reporting period that provides further evidence of con­di­tions that existed at the end of the reporting period, including an event that indicates that the going concern as­sump­tion in relation to the whole or part of the en­ter­prise is not ap­pro­pri­ate. [IAS 10.3]
Non-ad­just­ing event: An event after the reporting period that is in­dica­tive of a condition that arose after the end of the reporting period. [IAS 10.3]
Accounting
Adjust financial state­ments for adjusting events - events after the balance sheet date that provide further evidence of con­di­tions that existed at the end of the reporting period, including events that indicate that the going concern as­sump­tion in relation to the whole or part of the en­ter­prise is not ap­pro­pri­ate. [IAS 10.8]
Do not adjust for non-ad­just­ing events - events or con­di­tions that arose after the end of the reporting period. [IAS 10.10]
If an entity declares dividends after the reporting period, the entity shall not recognise those dividends as a liability at the end of the reporting period. That is a non-ad­just­ing event. [IAS 10.12]
Going concern issues arising after end of the reporting period
An entity shall not prepare its financial state­ments on a going concern basis if man­age­ment de­ter­mines after the end of the reporting period either that it intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or that it has no realistic al­ter­na­tive but to do so. [IAS 10.14]
Dis­clo­sure
Non-ad­just­ing events should be disclosed if they are of such im­por­tance that non-dis­clo­sure would affect the ability of users to make proper eval­u­a­tions and decisions. The required dis­clo­sure is (a) the nature of the event and (b) an estimate of its financial effect or a statement that a rea­son­able estimate of the effect cannot be made. [IAS 10.21]
A company should update dis­clo­sures that relate to con­di­tions that existed at the end of the reporting period to reflect any new in­for­ma­tion that it receives after the reporting period about those con­di­tions. [IAS 10.19]
Companies must disclose the date when the financial state­ments were au­tho­rised for issue and who gave that au­tho­ri­sa­tion. If the en­ter­prise's owners or others have the power to amend the financial state­ments after issuance, the en­ter­prise must disclose that fact. [IAS 10.17]
IAS 11 — Construction Contracts
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 11 Con­struc­tion Contracts provides re­quire­ments on the al­lo­ca­tion of contract revenue and contract costs to accounting periods in which con­struc­tion work is performed. Contract revenues and expenses are recog­nised by reference to the stage of com­ple­tion of contract activity where the outcome of the con­struc­tion contract can be estimated reliably, otherwise revenue is recog­nised only to the extent of re­cov­er­able contract costs incurred.
IAS 11 was reissued in December 1993 and is ap­plic­a­ble for periods beginning on or after 1 January 1995.
History of IAS 11
December 1977 Exposure Draft E11 Accounting for Con­struc­tion Contracts
March 1979 IAS 11 Accounting for Con­struc­tion Contracts
1 January 1980 Effective date of IAS 11
May 1992 Exposure Draft E42 Con­struc­tion Contracts
December 1993 IAS 11 (1993) Con­struc­tion Contracts (revised as part of the 'Com­pa­ra­bil­ity of Financial State­ments' project)
1 January 1995 Effective date of IAS 11 (1993)
1 January 2018 IAS 11 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 15 Agree­ments for the Con­struc­tion of Real Estate
IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments
Summary of IAS 11
Objective of IAS 11
The objective of IAS 11 is to prescribe the accounting treatment of revenue and costs as­so­ci­ated with con­struc­tion contracts.
What is a con­struc­tion contract?
A con­struc­tion contract is a contract specif­i­cally ne­go­ti­ated for the con­struc­tion of an asset or a group of in­ter­re­lated assets. [IAS 11.3]
Under IAS 11, if a contract covers two or more assets, the con­struc­tion of each asset should be accounted for sep­a­rately if (a) separate proposals were submitted for each asset, (b) portions of the contract relating to each asset were ne­go­ti­ated sep­a­rately, and (c) costs and revenues of each asset can be measured. Otherwise, the contract should be accounted for in its entirety. [IAS 11.8]
Two or more contracts should be accounted for as a single contract if they were ne­go­ti­ated together and the work is in­ter­re­lated. [IAS 11.9]
If a contract gives the customer an option to order one or more ad­di­tional assets, con­struc­tion of each ad­di­tional asset should be accounted for as a separate contract if either (a) the ad­di­tional asset differs sig­nif­i­cantly from the original asset(s) or (b) the price of the ad­di­tional asset is sep­a­rately ne­go­ti­ated. [IAS 11.10]
What is included in contract revenue and costs?
Contract revenue should include the amount agreed in the initial contract, plus revenue from al­ter­na­tions in the original contract work, plus claims and incentive payments that (a) are expected to be collected and (b) that can be measured reliably. [IAS 11.11]
Contract costs should include costs that relate directly to the specific contract, plus costs that are at­trib­ut­able to the con­trac­tor's general con­tract­ing activity to the extent that they can be rea­son­ably allocated to the contract, plus such other costs that can be specif­i­cally charged to the customer under the terms of the contract. [IAS 11.16]
Accounting
If the outcome of a con­struc­tion contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs should be recog­nised in pro­por­tion to the stage of com­ple­tion of contract activity. This is known as the per­cent­age of com­ple­tion method of accounting. [IAS 11.22]
To be able to estimate the outcome of a contract reliably, the entity must be able to make a reliable estimate of total contract revenue, the stage of com­ple­tion, and the costs to complete the contract. [IAS 11.23-24]
If the outcome cannot be estimated reliably, no profit should be recog­nised. Instead, contract revenue should be recog­nised only to the extent that contract costs incurred are expected to be re­cov­er­able and contract costs should be expensed as incurred. [IAS 11.32]
The stage of com­ple­tion of a contract can be de­ter­mined in a variety of ways - including the pro­por­tion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, surveys of work performed, or com­ple­tion of a physical pro­por­tion of the contract work. [IAS 11.30]
An expected loss on a con­struc­tion contract should be recog­nised as an expense as soon as such loss is probable. [IAS 11.22 and 11.36]
Dis­clo­sure
amount of contract revenue recog­nised; [IAS 11.39(a)]
method used to determine revenue; [IAS 11.39(b)]
method used to determine stage of com­ple­tion; [IAS 11.39(c)] and
for contracts in progress at balance sheet date: [IAS 11.40]
aggregate costs incurred and recog­nised profit
amount of advances received
amount of re­ten­tions
Pre­sen­ta­tion
The gross amount due from customers for contract work should be shown as an asset. [IAS 11.42]
The gross amount due to customers for contract work should be shown as a liability. [IAS 11.42]
IAS 12 — Income Taxes
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 12 Income Taxes im­ple­ments a so-called 'com­pre­hen­sive balance sheet method' of accounting for income taxes which recog­nises both the current tax con­se­quences of trans­ac­tions and events and the future tax con­se­quences of the future recovery or set­tle­ment of the carrying amount of an entity's assets and li­a­bil­i­ties. Dif­fer­ences between the carrying amount and tax base of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, and carried forward tax losses and credits, are recog­nised, with limited ex­cep­tions, as deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties or deferred tax assets, with the latter also being subject to a 'probable profits' test.
IAS 12 was reissued in October 1996 and is ap­plic­a­ble to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 1998.
History of IAS 12
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
April 1978 Exposure Draft E13 Accounting for Taxes on Income published
July 1979 IAS 12 Accounting for Taxes on Income issued
January 1989 Exposure Draft E33 Accounting for Taxes on Income published
1994 IAS 12 (1979) was re­for­mat­ted
October 1994 Exposure Draft E49 Income Taxes published
October 1996 IAS 12 Income Taxes issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1998
October 2000 Limited Revisions to IAS 12 published (tax con­se­quences of dividends) Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2001
31 March 2009 Exposure Draft ED/2009/2 Income Tax published Comment deadline 31 July 2009
(proposals were not finalised)
10 September 2010 Exposure Draft ED/2010/11 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Un­der­ly­ing Assets (Proposed amend­ments to IAS 12) published Comment deadline 9 November 2010
20 December 2010 Amended by Deferred Tax: Recovery of Un­der­ly­ing Assets Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012
19 January 2016 Amended by Recog­ni­tion of Deferred Tax Assets for Un­re­alised Losses Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017
7 June 2017 IFRIC 23 Un­cer­tainty over Income Tax Treat­ments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
12 December 2017 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Cycle Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 7 Applying the Re­state­ment Approach under IAS 29 'Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies'
IFRIC 23 Un­cer­tainty over Income Tax Treat­ments
SIC-21 Income Taxes – Recovery of Revalued Non-De­pre­cia­ble Assets (SIC-21 was in­cor­po­rated into IAS 12 and withdrawn by the December 2010 amend­ments made by Deferred Tax: Recovery of Un­der­ly­ing Assets)
SIC-25 Income Taxes – Changes in the Tax Status of an En­ter­prise or its Share­hold­ers
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
IAS 12 — Deferred tax related to assets and li­a­bil­i­ties arising from a single trans­ac­tion
Research project — Income taxes (longer term)
Summary of IAS 12
Objective of IAS 12
The objective of IAS 12 (1996) is to prescribe the accounting treatment for income taxes.
In meeting this objective, IAS 12 notes the following:
It is inherent in the recog­ni­tion of an asset or liability that that asset or liability will be recovered or settled, and this recovery or set­tle­ment may give rise to future tax con­se­quences which should be recog­nised at the same time as the asset or liability
An entity should account for the tax con­se­quences of trans­ac­tions and other events in the same way it accounts for the trans­ac­tions or other events them­selves.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IAS 12.5]
Tax base The tax base of an asset or liability is the amount at­trib­uted to that asset or liability for tax purposes
Temporary dif­fer­ences Dif­fer­ences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and its tax bases
Taxable temporary dif­fer­ences Temporary dif­fer­ences that will result in taxable amounts in de­ter­min­ing taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods when the carrying amount of the asset or liability is recovered or settled
De­ductible temporary dif­fer­ences Temporary dif­fer­ences that will result in amounts that are de­ductible in de­ter­min­ing taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods when the carrying amount of the asset or liability is recovered or settled
Deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties The amounts of income taxes payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary dif­fer­ences
Deferred tax assets The amounts of income taxes re­cov­er­able in future periods in respect of:
de­ductible temporary dif­fer­ences
the car­ry­for­ward of unused tax losses, and
the car­ry­for­ward of unused tax credits
Current tax
Current tax for the current and prior periods is recog­nised as a liability to the extent that it has not yet been settled, and as an asset to the extent that the amounts already paid exceed the amount due. [IAS 12.12] The benefit of a tax loss which can be carried back to recover current tax of a prior period is recog­nised as an asset. [IAS 12.13]
Current tax assets and li­a­bil­i­ties are measured at the amount expected to be paid to (recovered from) taxation au­thor­i­ties, using the rates/laws that have been enacted or sub­stan­tively enacted by the balance sheet date. [IAS 12.46]
Cal­cu­la­tion of deferred taxes
Formulae
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties can be cal­cu­lated using the following formulae:
Temporary dif­fer­ence  =  Carrying amount  -  Tax base
Deferred tax asset or liability  =  Temporary dif­fer­ence  x  Tax rate
The following formula can be used in the cal­cu­la­tion of deferred taxes arising from unused tax losses or unused tax credits:
Deferred tax asset  =  Unused tax loss or unused tax credits  x  Tax rate
Tax bases
The tax base of an item is crucial in de­ter­min­ing the amount of any temporary dif­fer­ence, and ef­fec­tively rep­re­sents the amount at which the asset or liability would be recorded in a tax-based balance sheet. IAS 12 provides the following guidance on de­ter­min­ing tax bases:
Assets. The tax base of an asset is the amount that will be de­ductible against taxable economic benefits from re­cov­er­ing the carrying amount of the asset. Where recovery of an asset will have no tax con­se­quences, the tax base is equal to the carrying amount. [IAS 12.7]
Revenue received in advance. The tax base of the recog­nised liability is its carrying amount, less revenue that will not be taxable in future periods [IAS 12.8]
Other li­a­bil­i­ties. The tax base of a liability is its carrying amount, less any amount that will be de­ductible for tax purposes in respect of that liability in future periods [IAS 12.8]
Un­recog­nised items. If items have a tax base but are not recog­nised in the statement of financial position, the carrying amount is nil [IAS 12.9]
Tax bases not im­me­di­ately apparent. If the tax base of an item is not im­me­di­ately apparent, the tax base should ef­fec­tively be de­ter­mined in such as manner to ensure the future tax con­se­quences of recovery or set­tle­ment of the item is recog­nised as a deferred tax amount [IAS 12.10]
Con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments. In con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, the carrying amounts in the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments are used, and the tax bases de­ter­mined by reference to any con­sol­i­dated tax return (or otherwise from the tax returns of each entity in the group). [IAS 12.11]
Examples
The de­ter­mi­na­tion of the tax base will depend on the ap­plic­a­ble tax laws and the entity's ex­pec­ta­tions as to recovery and set­tle­ment of its assets and li­a­bil­i­ties. The following are some basic examples:
Property, plant and equipment. The tax base of property, plant and equipment that is de­pre­cia­ble for tax purposes that is used in the entity's op­er­a­tions is the unclaimed tax de­pre­ci­a­tion permitted as deduction in future periods
Re­ceiv­ables. If receiving payment of the re­ceiv­able has no tax con­se­quences, its tax base is equal to its carrying amount
Goodwill. If goodwill is not recog­nised for tax purposes, its tax base is nil (no de­duc­tions are available)
Revenue in advance. If the revenue is taxed on receipt but deferred for accounting purposes, the tax base of the liability is equal to its carrying amount (as there are no future taxable amounts). Con­versely, if the revenue is recog­nised for tax purposes when the goods or services are received, the tax base will be equal to nil
Loans. If there are no tax con­se­quences from repayment of the loan, the tax base of the loan is equal to its carrying amount. If the repayment has tax con­se­quences (e.g. taxable amounts or de­duc­tions on re­pay­ments of foreign currency loans recog­nised for tax purposes at the exchange rate on the date the loan was drawn down), the tax con­se­quence of repayment at carrying amount is adjusted against the carrying amount to determine the tax base (which in the case of the afore­men­tioned foreign currency loan would result in the tax base of the loan being de­ter­mined by reference to the exchange rate on the draw down date).
  Recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of deferred taxes
Recog­ni­tion of deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties
The general principle in IAS 12 is that a deferred tax liability is recog­nised for all taxable temporary dif­fer­ences. There are three ex­cep­tions to the re­quire­ment to recognise a deferred tax liability, as follows:
li­a­bil­i­ties arising from initial recog­ni­tion of goodwill [IAS 12.15(a)]
li­a­bil­i­ties arising from the initial recog­ni­tion of an asset/liability other than in a business com­bi­na­tion which, at the time of the trans­ac­tion, does not affect either the accounting or the taxable profit [IAS 12.15(b)]
li­a­bil­i­ties arising from temporary dif­fer­ences as­so­ci­ated with in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, branches, and as­so­ci­ates, and interests in joint arrange­ments, but only to the extent that the entity is able to control the timing of the reversal of the dif­fer­ences and it is probable that the reversal will not occur in the fore­see­able future. [IAS 12.39]
Example
An entity un­der­taken a business com­bi­na­tion which results in the recog­ni­tion of goodwill in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions. The goodwill is not tax de­pre­cia­ble or otherwise recog­nised for tax purposes.
As no future tax de­duc­tions are available in respect of the goodwill, the tax base is nil. Ac­cord­ingly, a taxable temporary dif­fer­ence arises in respect of the entire carrying amount of the goodwill. However, the taxable temporary dif­fer­ence does not result in the recog­ni­tion of a deferred tax liability because of the recog­ni­tion exception for deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties arising from goodwill.
  Recog­ni­tion of deferred tax assets
A deferred tax asset is recog­nised for de­ductible temporary dif­fer­ences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the de­ductible temporary dif­fer­ences can be utilised, unless the deferred tax asset arises from: [IAS 12.24]
the initial recog­ni­tion of an asset or liability other than in a business com­bi­na­tion which, at the time of the trans­ac­tion, does not affect accounting profit or taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets for de­ductible temporary dif­fer­ences arising from in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, branches and as­so­ci­ates, and interests in joint arrange­ments, are only recog­nised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary dif­fer­ence will reverse in the fore­see­able future and that taxable profit will be available against which the temporary dif­fer­ence will be utilised. [IAS 12.44]
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that suf­fi­cient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilised. Any such reduction is sub­se­quently reversed to the extent that it becomes probable that suf­fi­cient taxable profit will be available. [IAS 12.37]
A deferred tax asset is recog­nised for an unused tax loss car­ry­for­ward or unused tax credit if, and only if, it is con­sid­ered probable that there will be suf­fi­cient future taxable profit against which the loss or credit car­ry­for­ward can be utilised. [IAS 12.34]
Mea­sure­ment of deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and li­a­bil­i­ties are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates/laws that have been enacted or sub­stan­tively enacted by the end of the reporting period. [IAS 12.47] The mea­sure­ment reflects the entity's ex­pec­ta­tions, at the end of the reporting period, as to the manner in which the carrying amount of its assets and li­a­bil­i­ties will be recovered or settled. [IAS 12.51]
IAS 12 provides the following guidance on measuring deferred taxes:
Where the tax rate or tax base is impacted by the manner in which the entity recovers its assets or settles its li­a­bil­i­ties (e.g. whether an asset is sold or used), the mea­sure­ment of deferred taxes is con­sis­tent with the way in which an asset is recovered or liability settled [IAS 12.51A]
Where deferred taxes arise from revalued non-de­pre­cia­ble assets (e.g. revalued land), deferred taxes reflect the tax con­se­quences of selling the asset [IAS 12.51B]
Deferred taxes arising from in­vest­ment property measured at fair value under IAS 40 In­vest­ment Property reflect the re­but­table pre­sump­tion that the in­vest­ment property will be recovered through sale [IAS 12.51C-51D]
If dividends are paid to share­hold­ers, and this causes income taxes to be payable at a higher or lower rate, or the entity pays ad­di­tional taxes or receives a refund, deferred taxes are measured using the tax rate ap­plic­a­ble to undis­trib­uted profits [IAS 12.52A]
Deferred tax assets and li­a­bil­i­ties cannot be dis­counted. [IAS 12.53]
Recog­ni­tion of tax amounts for the period
Amount of income tax to recognise
The following formula sum­marises the amount of tax to be recog­nised in an accounting period:
Tax to recognise for the period  =  Current tax for the period  +  Movement in deferred tax balances for the period
Where to recognise income tax for the period
Con­sis­tent with the prin­ci­ples un­der­ly­ing IAS 12, the tax con­se­quences of trans­ac­tions and other events are recog­nised in the same way as the items giving rise to those tax con­se­quences. Ac­cord­ingly, current and deferred tax is recog­nised as income or expense and included in profit or loss for the period, except to the extent that the tax arises from: [IAS 12.58]
trans­ac­tions or events that are recog­nised outside of profit or loss (other com­pre­hen­sive income or equity) - in which case the related tax amount is also recog­nised outside of profit or loss [IAS 12.61A]
a business com­bi­na­tion - in which case the tax amounts are recog­nised as iden­ti­fi­able assets or li­a­bil­i­ties at the ac­qui­si­tion date, and ac­cord­ingly ef­fec­tively taken into account in the de­ter­mi­na­tion of goodwill when applying IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions. [IAS 12.66]
Example
An entity un­der­takes a capital raising and incurs in­cre­men­tal costs directly at­trib­ut­able to the equity trans­ac­tion, including reg­u­la­tory fees, legal costs and stamp duties. In ac­cor­dance with the re­quire­ments of IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion, the costs are accounted for as a deduction from equity.
Assume that the costs incurred are im­me­di­ately de­ductible for tax purposes, reducing the amount of current tax payable for the period. When the tax benefit of the de­duc­tions is recog­nised, the current tax amount as­so­ci­ated with the costs of the equity trans­ac­tion is recog­nised directly in equity, con­sis­tent with the treatment of the costs them­selves.
IAS 12 provides the following ad­di­tional guidance on the recog­ni­tion of income tax for the period:
Where it is difficult to determine the amount of current and deferred tax relating to items recog­nised outside of profit or loss (e.g. where there are graduated rates or tax), the amount of income tax recog­nised outside of profit or loss is de­ter­mined on a rea­son­able pro-rata al­lo­ca­tion, or using another more ap­pro­pri­ate method [IAS 12.63]
In the cir­cum­stances where the payment of dividends impacts the tax rate or results in taxable amounts or refunds, the income tax con­se­quences of dividends are con­sid­ered to be more directly linked to past trans­ac­tions or events and so are recog­nised in profit or loss unless the past trans­ac­tions or events were recog­nised outside of profit or loss [IAS 12.52B]
The impact of business com­bi­na­tions on the recog­ni­tion of pre-com­bi­na­tion deferred tax assets are not included in the de­ter­mi­na­tion of goodwill as part of the business com­bi­na­tion, but are sep­a­rately recog­nised [IAS 12.68]
The recog­ni­tion of acquired deferred tax benefits sub­se­quent to a business com­bi­na­tion are treated as 'mea­sure­ment period' ad­just­ments (see IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions) if they qualify for that treatment, or otherwise are recog­nised in profit or loss [IAS 12.68]
Tax benefits of equity settled share based payment trans­ac­tions that exceed the tax effected cu­mu­la­tive re­mu­ner­a­tion expense are con­sid­ered to relate to an equity item and are recog­nised directly in equity. [IAS 12.68C]
Pre­sen­ta­tion
Current tax assets and current tax li­a­bil­i­ties can only be offset in the statement of financial position if the entity has the legal right and the intention to settle on a net basis. [IAS 12.71]
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties can only be offset in the statement of financial position if the entity has the legal right to settle current tax amounts on a net basis and the deferred tax amounts are levied by the same taxing authority on the same entity or different entities that intend to realise the asset and settle the liability at the same time. [IAS 12.74]
The amount of tax expense (or income) related to profit or loss is required to be presented in the statement(s) of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income. [IAS 12.77]
The tax effects of items included in other com­pre­hen­sive income can either be shown net for each item, or the items can be shown before tax effects with an aggregate amount of income tax for groups of items (allocated between items that will and will not be re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss in sub­se­quent periods). [IAS 1.91]
Dis­clo­sure
IAS 12.80 requires the following dis­clo­sures:
major com­po­nents of tax expense (tax income) [IAS 12.79] Examples include:
current tax expense (income)
any ad­just­ments of taxes of prior periods
amount of deferred tax expense (income) relating to the orig­i­na­tion and reversal of temporary dif­fer­ences
amount of deferred tax expense (income) relating to changes in tax rates or the im­po­si­tion of new taxes
amount of the benefit arising from a pre­vi­ously un­recog­nised tax loss, tax credit or temporary dif­fer­ence of a prior period
write down, or reversal of a previous write down, of a deferred tax asset
amount of tax expense (income) relating to changes in accounting policies and cor­rec­tions of errors.
IAS 12.81 requires the following dis­clo­sures:
aggregate current and deferred tax relating to items recog­nised directly in equity
tax relating to each component of other com­pre­hen­sive income
ex­pla­na­tion of the re­la­tion­ship between tax expense (income) and the tax that would be expected by applying the current tax rate to accounting profit or loss (this can be presented as a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of amounts of tax or a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the rate of tax)
changes in tax rates
amounts and other details of de­ductible temporary dif­fer­ences, unused tax losses, and unused tax credits
temporary dif­fer­ences as­so­ci­ated with in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, branches and as­so­ci­ates, and interests in joint arrange­ments
for each type of temporary dif­fer­ence and unused tax loss and credit, the amount of deferred tax assets or li­a­bil­i­ties recog­nised in the statement of financial position and the amount of deferred tax income or expense recog­nised in profit or loss
tax relating to dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions
tax con­se­quences of dividends declared after the end of the reporting period
in­for­ma­tion about the impacts of business com­bi­na­tions on an acquirer's deferred tax assets
recog­ni­tion of deferred tax assets of an acquiree after the ac­qui­si­tion date.
Other required dis­clo­sures:
details of deferred tax assets [IAS 12.82]
tax con­se­quences of future dividend payments. [IAS 12.82A]
In addition to the dis­clo­sures required by IAS 12, some dis­clo­sures relating to income taxes are required by IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments, as follows:
Dis­clo­sure on the face of the statement of financial position about current tax assets, current tax li­a­bil­i­ties, deferred tax assets, and deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties [IAS 1.54(n) and (o)]
Dis­clo­sure of tax expense (tax income) in the profit or loss section of the statement of profit or loss and other com­pre­hen­sive income (or separate statement if presented). [IAS 1.82(d)]
IAS 14 — Segment Reporting (Superseded)
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 14 Segment Reporting requires reporting of financial in­for­ma­tion by business or ge­o­graph­i­cal area. It requires dis­clo­sures for 'primary' and 'secondary' segment reporting formats, with the primary format based on whether the entity's risks and returns are affected pre­dom­i­nantly by the products and services it produces or by the fact that it operates in different ge­o­graph­i­cal areas.
IAS 14 was issued in August 1997, was ap­plic­a­ble to annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 1998, and was su­per­seded by IFRS 8 Operating Segments with effect from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
History of IAS 14
March 1980 Exposure Draft E15 Reporting Financial In­for­ma­tion by Segment
August 1981 IAS 14 Reporting Financial In­for­ma­tion by Segment
1 January 1983 Effective date of IAS 14 (1981)
1994 IAS 14 (1981) was re­for­mat­ted
December 1995 Exposure Draft E51 Reporting Financial In­for­ma­tion by Segment
August 1997 IAS 14 Segment Reporting
1 July 1998 Effective date of IAS 14 (1997)
30 November 2006 IAS 14 is su­per­seded by IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2009
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Summary of IAS 14
Objective of IAS 14
The objective of IAS 14 (Revised 1997) is to establish prin­ci­ples for reporting financial in­for­ma­tion by line of business and by ge­o­graph­i­cal area. It applies to entities whose equity or debt se­cu­ri­ties are publicly traded and to entities in the process of issuing se­cu­ri­ties to the public. In addition, any entity vol­un­tar­ily providing segment in­for­ma­tion should comply with the re­quire­ments of the Standard.
Ap­plic­a­bil­ity
IAS 14 must be applied by entities whose debt or equity se­cu­ri­ties are publicly traded and those in the process of issuing such se­cu­ri­ties in public se­cu­ri­ties markets. [IAS 14.3]
If an entity that is not publicly traded chooses to report segment in­for­ma­tion and claims that its financial state­ments conform to IFRSs, then it must follow IAS 14 in full. [IAS 14.5]
Segment in­for­ma­tion need not be presented in the separate financial state­ments of a (a) parent, (b) sub­sidiary, (c) equity method associate, or (d) equity method joint venture that are presented in the same report as the con­sol­i­dated state­ments. [IAS 14.6-7]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
Business segment: a component of an entity that (a) provides a single product or service or a group of related products and services and (b) that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments. [IAS 14.9]
Ge­o­graph­i­cal segment: a component of an entity that (a) provides products and services within a par­tic­u­lar economic en­vi­ron­ment and (b) that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of com­po­nents operating in other economic en­vi­ron­ments. [IAS 14.9]
Re­portable segment: a business segment or ge­o­graph­i­cal segment for which IAS 14 requires segment in­for­ma­tion to be reported. [IAS 14.9]
Segment revenue: revenue, including in­ter­seg­ment revenue, that is directly at­trib­ut­able or rea­son­ably allocable to a segment. Includes interest and dividend income and related se­cu­ri­ties gains only if the segment is a financial segment (bank, insurance company, etc.). [IAS 14.16]
Segment expenses: expenses, including expenses relating to in­ter­seg­ment trans­ac­tions, that (a) result from operating ac­tiv­i­ties and (b) are directly at­trib­ut­able or rea­son­ably allocable to a segment. Includes interest expense and related se­cu­ri­ties losses only if the segment is a financial segment (bank, insurance company, etc.). Segment expenses do not include:
interest
losses on sales of in­vest­ments or debt ex­tin­guish­ments
losses on in­vest­ments accounted for by the equity method
income taxes
general corporate ad­min­is­tra­tive and head-of­fice expenses that relate to the entity as a whole [IAS 14.16]
Segment result: segment revenue minus segment expenses, before deducting minority interest. [IAS 14.16]
Segment assets and segment li­a­bil­i­ties: those operating assets (li­a­bil­i­ties) that are directly at­trib­ut­able or rea­son­ably allocable to a segment. [IAS 14.16]
Iden­ti­fy­ing business and ge­o­graph­i­cal segments
An entity must look to its or­gan­i­sa­tional structure and internal reporting system to identify re­portable segments. In par­tic­u­lar, IAS 14 presumes that seg­men­ta­tion in internal financial reports prepared for the board of directors and chief executive officer should normally determine segments for external financial reporting purposes. Only if internal segments are not along either product/service or ge­o­graph­i­cal lines is further dis­ag­gre­ga­tion ap­pro­pri­ate. [IAS 14.26]
Ge­o­graph­i­cal segments may be based either on where the entity's assets are located or on where its customers are located. [IAS 14.14] Whichever basis is used, several items of data must be presented on the other basis if sig­nif­i­cantly different. [IAS 14.71-72]
Primary and secondary segments
For most entities one basis of seg­men­ta­tion is primary and the other is secondary, with con­sid­er­ably less dis­clo­sure required for secondary segments. The entity should determine whether business or ge­o­graph­i­cal segments are to be used for its primary segment reporting format based on whether the entity's risks and returns are affected pre­dom­i­nantly by the products and services it produces or by the fact that it operates in different ge­o­graph­i­cal areas. The basis for iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of the pre­dom­i­nant source and nature of risks and differing rates of return facing the entity will usually be the entity's internal or­gan­i­sa­tional and man­age­ment structure and its system of internal financial reporting to senior man­age­ment. [IAS 14.26-27]
Which segments are re­portable?
The entity's re­portable segments are its business and ge­o­graph­i­cal segments for which a majority of their revenue is earned from sales to external customers and for which: [IAS 14.35]
revenue from sales to external customers and from trans­ac­tions with other segments is 10% or more of the total revenue, external and internal, of all segments; or
segment result, whether profit or loss, is 10% or more the combined result of all segments in profit or the combined result of all segments in loss, whichever is greater in absolute amount; or
assets are 10% or more of the total assets of all segments.
Segments deemed too small for separate reporting may be combined with each other, if related, but they may not be combined with other sig­nif­i­cant segments for which in­for­ma­tion is reported in­ter­nally. Al­ter­na­tively, they may be sep­a­rately reported. If neither combined nor sep­a­rately reported, they must be included as an un­al­lo­cated rec­on­cil­ing item. [IAS 14.36]
If total external revenue at­trib­ut­able to re­portable segments iden­ti­fied using the 10% thresh­olds outlined above is less than 75% of the total con­sol­i­dated or entity revenue, ad­di­tional segments should be iden­ti­fied as re­portable segments until at least 75% of total con­sol­i­dated or entity revenue is included in re­portable segments. [IAS 14.37]
Ver­ti­cally in­te­grated segments (those that earn a majority of their revenue from in­ter­seg­ment trans­ac­tions) may be, but need not be, re­portable segments. [IAS 14.39] If not sep­a­rately reported, the selling segment is combined with the buying segment. [IAS 14.41]
IAS 14.42-43 contain special rules for iden­ti­fy­ing re­portable segments in the years in which a segment reaches or loses 10% sig­nif­i­cance.
What accounting policies should a segment follow?
Segment accounting policies must be the same as those used in the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments. [IAS 14.44]
If assets used jointly by two or more segments are allocated to segments, the related revenue and expenses must also be allocated. [IAS 14.47]
What must be disclosed?
IAS 14 has detailed guidance as to which items of revenue and expense are included in segment revenue and segment expense. All companies will report a stan­dard­ised measure of segment result – basically operating profit before interest, taxes, and head office expenses. For an entity's primary segments, revised IAS 14 requires dis­clo­sure of: [IAS 14.51-67]
sales revenue (dis­tin­guish­ing between external and in­ter­seg­ment)
result
assets
the basis of in­ter­seg­ment pricing
li­a­bil­i­ties
capital additions
de­pre­ci­a­tion and amor­ti­sa­tion
sig­nif­i­cant unusual items
non-cash expenses other than de­pre­ci­a­tion
equity method income
Segment revenue includes "sales" from one segment to another. Under IAS 14, these in­ter­seg­ment transfers must be measured on the basis that the entity actually used to price the transfers. [IAS 14.75]
For secondary segments, disclose: [IAS 14.69-72]
revenue
assets
capital additions
Other dis­clo­sure matters addressed in IAS 14:
Dis­clo­sure is required of external revenue for a segment that is not deemed a re­portable segment because a majority of its sales are in­ter­seg­ment sales but nonethe­less its external sales are 10% or more of con­sol­i­dated revenue. [IAS 14.74]
Special dis­clo­sures are required for changes in segment accounting policies. [IAS 14.76]
Where there has been a change in the iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of segments, prior year in­for­ma­tion should be restated. If this is not prac­ti­ca­ble, segment data should be reported for both the old and new bases of seg­men­ta­tion in the year of change. [IAS 14.76]
Dis­clo­sure is required of the types of products and services included in each reported business segment and of the com­po­si­tion of each reported ge­o­graph­i­cal segment, both primary and secondary. [IAS 14.81]
An entity must present a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion between in­for­ma­tion reported for segments and con­sol­i­dated in­for­ma­tion. At a minimum: [IAS 14.67]
segment revenue should be rec­on­ciled to con­sol­i­dated revenue
segment result should be rec­on­ciled to a com­pa­ra­ble measure of con­sol­i­dated operating profit or loss and con­sol­i­dated net profit or loss
segment assets should be rec­on­ciled to entity assets
segment li­a­bil­i­ties should be rec­on­ciled to entity li­a­bil­i­ties.
IAS 15 — Information Reflecting the Effects of Changing Prices (Withdrawn)
Quick Article Links
History of IAS 15
January 1976 Exposure Draft E6 Accounting Treatment of Changing Prices
June 1977 IAS 6 Accounting Responses to Changing Prices
1 January 1978 Effective date of IAS 6
August 1980 Exposure Draft E17 In­for­ma­tion Re­flect­ing the Effects of Changing Prices
November 1981 IAS 15 In­for­ma­tion Re­flect­ing the Effects of Changing Prices su­per­seded IAS 6
1 January 1983 Effective date of IAS 15 (1981)
October 1989 IASC Board voted to make the IAS 15 dis­clo­sures optional and added a statement to that effect at the front of IAS 15
1994 Re­for­mat­ted
2001 IASB ten­ta­tively decided to withdraw IAS 15
December 2003 Withdrawn effective 1 January 2005
Summary of IAS 15
In October 1989 IAS 15 Was Made Optional
In October 1989, the IASC issued a Board Statement making IAS 15 optional, not mandatory. IASC granted that exemption because of the failure to reach an international consensus on the dis­clo­sure of in­for­ma­tion re­flect­ing the effects of changing prices. However, en­ter­prises are en­cour­aged to disclose in­for­ma­tion re­flect­ing the effects of changing prices and, where they do so, to disclose the items required by IAS 15.
In December 2003, the IASB withdrew IAS 15 as part of its Im­prove­ments Project, effective 1 January 2005.
Objective of IAS 15
The objective of IAS 15 is to specify dis­clo­sures re­flect­ing the effects of changing prices on the mea­sure­ments used in the de­ter­mi­na­tion of an en­ter­prise's results of op­er­a­tions and its financial position.
Ap­plic­a­bil­ity
IAS 15 applies to en­ter­prises whose levels of revenue, profit, assets or em­ploy­ment are sig­nif­i­cant in the economic en­vi­ron­ment in which they operate. When both parent and con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments are presented, the in­for­ma­tion specified by IAS 15 need be presented only on a con­sol­i­dated basis. [IAS 15.3]
Method for re­flect­ing changing prices
The en­ter­prise must select one of two broad accounting methods for re­flect­ing the effects of changing prices: [IAS 15.8]
General pur­chas­ing power approach. Restate financial state­ments for changes in the general price level.
Current cost approach. Measure balance sheet items at re­place­ment cost. IAS 15 allows a variety of methods of adjusting income under the current cost approach.
What should be disclosed
The following items should be disclosed, at a minimum, based on the chosen method for re­flect­ing the effects of changing prices: [IAS 15.21-23]
Ad­just­ment to de­pre­ci­a­tion
Ad­just­ment to cost of sales
Ad­just­ments relating to monetary items
The overall effect on net income of the above three items
Current cost of property, plant and equipment and of in­ven­to­ries, if the current cost approach is used
De­scrip­tion of the methods used to compute the above ad­just­ments
The dis­clo­sures can be made on a sup­ple­men­tary basis or in the primary financial state­ments. [IAS 15.24]
IAS 16 — Property, Plant and Equipment
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment outlines the accounting treatment for most types of property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment is initially measured at its cost, sub­se­quently measured either using a cost or reval­u­a­tion model, and de­pre­ci­ated so that its de­pre­cia­ble amount is allocated on a sys­tem­atic basis over its useful life.
IAS 16 was reissued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IAS 16
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
August 1980 Exposure Draft E18 Accounting for Property, Plant and Equipment in the Context of the His­tor­i­cal Cost System published
March 1982 IAS 16 Accounting for Property, Plant and Equipment issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1983
1 January 1992 Exposure Draft E43 Property, Plant and Equipment published
December 1993 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment issued
(revised as part of the 'Com­pa­ra­bil­ity of Financial State­ments' project) Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1995
April and July 1998 Amended to be con­sis­tent with IAS 22, IAS 36 and IAS 37 Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 July 1999
18 December 2003 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
22 May 2008 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (routine sales of assets held for rental) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
17 May 2012 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments 2009-2011 Cycle (clas­si­fi­ca­tion of servicing equipment) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (pro­por­tion­ate re­state­ment of ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion under the reval­u­a­tion method) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
12 May 2014 Amended by Clar­i­fi­ca­tion of Ac­cept­able Methods of De­pre­ci­a­tion and Amor­ti­sa­tion (Amend­ments to IAS 16 and IAS 38) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
30 June 2014 Amended by Agri­cul­ture: Bearer Plants (Amend­ments to IAS 16 and IAS 41) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
14 May 2020 Amended by Property, Plant and Equipment — Proceeds before Intended Use (Amend­ments to IAS 16) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Pro­duc­tion Phase of a Surface Mine
SIC-6 Costs of Modifying Existing Software. SIC-6 was su­per­seded by and in­cor­po­rated into IAS 16 (2003).
SIC-14 Property, Plant and Equipment – Com­pen­sa­tion for the Im­pair­ment or Loss of Items. SIC-14 was su­per­seded by and in­cor­po­rated into IAS 16 (2003).
SIC-23 Property, Plant and Equipment - Major In­spec­tion or Overhaul Costs. SIC-23 was su­per­seded by and in­cor­po­rated into IAS 16 (2003).
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
none
Summary of IAS 16
Objective of IAS 16
The objective of IAS 16 is to prescribe the accounting treatment for property, plant, and equipment. The principal issues are the recog­ni­tion of assets, the de­ter­mi­na­tion of their carrying amounts, and the de­pre­ci­a­tion charges and im­pair­ment losses to be recog­nised in relation to them.
Scope
IAS 16 applies to the accounting for property, plant and equipment, except where another standard requires or permits differing accounting treat­ments, for example:
assets clas­si­fied as held for sale in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions
bi­o­log­i­cal assets related to agri­cul­tural activity accounted for under IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture
ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 6 Ex­plo­ration for and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources
mineral rights and mineral reserves such as oil, natural gas and similar non-re­gen­er­a­tive resources.
The standard does apply to property, plant, and equipment used to develop or maintain the last three cat­e­gories of assets. [IAS 16.3]
The cost model in IAS 16 also applies to in­vest­ment property accounted for using the cost model under IAS 40 In­vest­ment Property. [IAS 16.5]
The standard does apply to bearer plants but it does not apply to the produce on bearer plants. [IAS 16.3]
Recog­ni­tion
Items of property, plant, and equipment should be recog­nised as assets when it is probable that: [IAS 16.7]
it is probable that the future economic benefits as­so­ci­ated with the asset will flow to the entity, and
the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
This recog­ni­tion principle is applied to all property, plant, and equipment costs at the time they are incurred. These costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, plant and equipment and costs incurred sub­se­quently to add to, replace part of, or service it.
IAS 16 does not prescribe the unit of measure for recog­ni­tion – what con­sti­tutes an item of property, plant, and equipment. [IAS 16.9] Note, however, that if the cost model is used (see below) each part of an item of property, plant, and equipment with a cost that is sig­nif­i­cant in relation to the total cost of the item must be de­pre­ci­ated sep­a­rately. [IAS 16.43]
IAS 16 recog­nises that parts of some items of property, plant, and equipment may require re­place­ment at regular intervals. The carrying amount of an item of property, plant, and equipment will include the cost of replacing the part of such an item when that cost is incurred if the recog­ni­tion criteria (future benefits and mea­sure­ment re­li­a­bil­ity) are met. The carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is dere­cog­nised in ac­cor­dance with the dere­cog­ni­tion pro­vi­sions of IAS 16.67-72. [IAS 16.13]
Also, continued operation of an item of property, plant, and equipment (for example, an aircraft) may require regular major in­spec­tions for faults re­gard­less of whether parts of the item are replaced. When each major in­spec­tion is performed, its cost is recog­nised in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant, and equipment as a re­place­ment if the recog­ni­tion criteria are satisfied. If necessary, the estimated cost of a future similar in­spec­tion may be used as an in­di­ca­tion of what the cost of the existing in­spec­tion component was when the item was acquired or con­structed. [IAS 16.14]
Initial mea­sure­ment
An item of property, plant and equipment should initially be recorded at cost. [IAS 16.15] Cost includes all costs necessary to bring the asset to working condition for its intended use. This would include not only its original purchase price but also costs of site prepa­ra­tion, delivery and handling, in­stal­la­tion, related pro­fes­sional fees for ar­chi­tects and engineers, and the estimated cost of dis­man­tling and removing the asset and restoring the site (see IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets). [IAS 16.16-17]
Proceeds from selling items produced while bringing an item of property, plant and equipment to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by man­age­ment are not deducted from the cost of the item of property, plant and equipment but recog­nised in profit or loss. [IAS 16.20A]
If payment for an item of property, plant, and equipment is deferred, interest at a market rate must be recog­nised or imputed. [IAS 16.23]
If an asset is acquired in exchange for another asset (whether similar or dis­sim­i­lar in nature), the cost will be measured at the fair value unless (a) the exchange trans­ac­tion lacks com­mer­cial substance or (b) the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably mea­sur­able. If the acquired item is not measured at fair value, its cost is measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up. [IAS 16.24]
Mea­sure­ment sub­se­quent to initial recog­ni­tion
IAS 16 permits two accounting models:
Cost model. The asset is carried at cost less ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion and im­pair­ment. [IAS 16.30]
Reval­u­a­tion model. The asset is carried at a revalued amount, being its fair value at the date of reval­u­a­tion less sub­se­quent de­pre­ci­a­tion and im­pair­ment, provided that fair value can be measured reliably. [IAS 16.31]
The reval­u­a­tion model
Under the reval­u­a­tion model, reval­u­a­tions should be carried out regularly, so that the carrying amount of an asset does not differ ma­te­ri­ally from its fair value at the balance sheet date. [IAS 16.31]
If an item is revalued, the entire class of assets to which that asset belongs should be revalued. [IAS 16.36]
Revalued assets are de­pre­ci­ated in the same way as under the cost model (see below).
If a reval­u­a­tion results in an increase in value, it should be credited to other com­pre­hen­sive income and ac­cu­mu­lated in equity under the heading "reval­u­a­tion surplus" unless it rep­re­sents the reversal of a reval­u­a­tion decrease of the same asset pre­vi­ously recog­nised as an expense, in which case it should be recog­nised in profit or loss. [IAS 16.39]
A decrease arising as a result of a reval­u­a­tion should be recog­nised as an expense to the extent that it exceeds any amount pre­vi­ously credited to the reval­u­a­tion surplus relating to the same asset. [IAS 16.40]
When a revalued asset is disposed of, any reval­u­a­tion surplus may be trans­ferred directly to retained earnings, or it may be left in equity under the heading reval­u­a­tion surplus. The transfer to retained earnings should not be made through profit or loss. [IAS 16.41]
De­pre­ci­a­tion (cost and reval­u­a­tion models)
For all de­pre­cia­ble assets:
The de­pre­cia­ble amount (cost less residual value) should be allocated on a sys­tem­atic basis over the asset's useful life [IAS 16.50].
The residual value and the useful life of an asset should be reviewed at least at each financial year-end and, if ex­pec­ta­tions differ from previous estimates, any change is accounted for prospec­tively as a change in estimate under IAS 8. [IAS 16.51]
The de­pre­ci­a­tion method used should reflect the pattern in which the asset's economic benefits are consumed by the entity [IAS 16.60]; a de­pre­ci­a­tion method that is based on revenue that is generated by an activity that includes the use of an asset is not ap­pro­pri­ate. [IAS 16.62A]
The de­pre­ci­a­tion method should be reviewed at least annually and, if the pattern of con­sump­tion of benefits has changed, the de­pre­ci­a­tion method should be changed prospec­tively as a change in estimate under IAS 8. [IAS 16.61] Expected future re­duc­tions in selling prices could be in­dica­tive of a higher rate of con­sump­tion of the future economic benefits embodied in an asset. [IAS 16.56]
De­pre­ci­a­tion should be charged to profit or loss, unless it is included in the carrying amount of another asset [IAS 16.48].
De­pre­ci­a­tion begins when the asset is available for use and continues until the asset is dere­cog­nised, even if it is idle. [IAS 16.55]
Re­cov­er­abil­ity of the carrying amount
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment requires im­pair­ment testing and, if necessary, recog­ni­tion for property, plant, and equipment. An item of property, plant, or equipment shall not be carried at more than re­cov­er­able amount. Re­cov­er­able amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Any claim for com­pen­sa­tion from third parties for im­pair­ment is included in profit or loss when the claim becomes re­ceiv­able. [IAS 16.65]
Dere­cog­ni­tion (re­tire­ments and disposals)
An asset should be removed from the statement of financial position on disposal or when it is withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The gain or loss on disposal is the dif­fer­ence between the proceeds and the carrying amount and should be recog­nised in profit and loss. [IAS 16.67-71]
If an entity rents some assets and then ceases to rent them, the assets should be trans­ferred to in­ven­to­ries at their carrying amounts as they become held for sale in the ordinary course of business. [IAS 16.68A]
Dis­clo­sure
In­for­ma­tion about each class of property, plant and equipment
For each class of property, plant, and equipment, disclose: [IAS 16.73]
basis for measuring carrying amount
de­pre­ci­a­tion method(s) used
useful lives or de­pre­ci­a­tion rates
gross carrying amount and ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion and im­pair­ment losses
rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the carrying amount at the beginning and the end of the period, showing:
additions
disposals
ac­qui­si­tions through business com­bi­na­tions
reval­u­a­tion increases or decreases
im­pair­ment losses
reversals of im­pair­ment losses
de­pre­ci­a­tion
net foreign exchange dif­fer­ences on trans­la­tion
other movements
Ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures
The following dis­clo­sures are also required: [IAS 16.74]
re­stric­tions on title and items pledged as security for li­a­bil­i­ties
ex­pen­di­tures to construct property, plant, and equipment during the period
con­trac­tual com­mit­ments to acquire property, plant, and equipment
com­pen­sa­tion from third parties for items of property, plant, and equipment that were impaired, lost or given up that is included in profit or loss.
IAS 16 also en­cour­ages, but does not require, a number of ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures. [IAS 16.79]
Revalued property, plant and equipment
If property, plant, and equipment is stated at revalued amounts, certain ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required: [IAS 16.77]
the effective date of the reval­u­a­tion
whether an in­de­pen­dent valuer was involved
for each revalued class of property, the carrying amount that would have been recog­nised had the assets been carried under the cost model
the reval­u­a­tion surplus, including changes during the period and any re­stric­tions on the dis­tri­b­u­tion of the balance to share­hold­ers.
Entities with property, plant and equipment stated at revalued amounts are also required to make dis­clo­sures under IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment.
IAS 17 — Leases
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 17 Leases pre­scribes the accounting policies and dis­clo­sures ap­plic­a­ble to leases, both for lessees and lessors. Leases are required to be clas­si­fied as either finance leases (which transfer sub­stan­tially all the risks and rewards of ownership, and give rise to asset and liability recog­ni­tion by the lessee and a re­ceiv­able by the lessor) and operating leases (which result in expense recog­ni­tion by the lessee, with the asset remaining recog­nised by the lessor).
IAS 17 was reissued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005. IAS 17 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases as of 1 January 2019.
History of IAS 17
October 1980 Exposure Draft E19 Accounting for Leases
September 1982 IAS 17 Accounting for Leases
1 January 1984 Effective date of IAS 17 (1982)
1994 IAS 17 (1982) was re­for­mat­ted
April 1997 Exposure Draft E56, Leases
December 1997 IAS 17 Leases
1 January 1999 Effective date of IAS 17 (1997) Leases
18 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 17 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 17 (Revised 2003)
16 April 2009 IAS 17 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009 about clas­si­fi­ca­tion of land leases
1 January 2010 Effective date of the April 2009 revisions to IAS 17, with early ap­pli­ca­tion permitted (with dis­clo­sure)
1 January 2019 IAS 17 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 4 De­ter­min­ing Whether an Arrange­ment Contains a Lease
SIC-15 Operating Leases – In­cen­tives
SIC-27 Eval­u­at­ing the Substance of Trans­ac­tions in the Legal Form of a Lease
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Leases – Com­pre­hen­sive project
Summary of IAS 17
Objective of IAS 17
The objective of IAS 17 (1997) is to prescribe, for lessees and lessors, the ap­pro­pri­ate accounting policies and dis­clo­sures to apply in relation to finance and operating leases.
Scope
IAS 17 applies to all leases other than lease agree­ments for minerals, oil, natural gas, and similar re­gen­er­a­tive resources and licensing agree­ments for films, videos, plays, man­u­scripts, patents, copy­rights, and similar items. [IAS 17.2]
However, IAS 17 does not apply as the basis of mea­sure­ment for the following leased assets: [IAS 17.2]
property held by lessees that is accounted for as in­vest­ment property for which the lessee uses the fair value model set out in IAS 40
in­vest­ment property provided by lessors under operating leases (see IAS 40)
bi­o­log­i­cal assets held by lessees under finance leases (see IAS 41)
bi­o­log­i­cal assets provided by lessors under operating leases (see IAS 41)
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of leases
A lease is clas­si­fied as a finance lease if it transfers sub­stan­tially all the risks and rewards incident to ownership. All other leases are clas­si­fied as operating leases. Clas­si­fi­ca­tion is made at the inception of the lease. [IAS 17.4]
Whether a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease depends on the substance of the trans­ac­tion rather than the form. Sit­u­a­tions that would normally lead to a lease being clas­si­fied as a finance lease include the following: [IAS 17.10]
the lease transfers ownership of the asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term
the lessee has the option to purchase the asset at a price which is expected to be suf­fi­ciently lower than fair value at the date the option becomes ex­er­cis­able that, at the inception of the lease, it is rea­son­ably certain that the option will be exercised
the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the asset, even if title is not trans­ferred
at the inception of the lease, the present value of the minimum lease payments amounts to at least sub­stan­tially all of the fair value of the leased asset
the lease assets are of a spe­cialised nature such that only the lessee can use them without major mod­i­fi­ca­tions being made
Other sit­u­a­tions that might also lead to clas­si­fi­ca­tion as a finance lease are: [IAS 17.11]
if the lessee is entitled to cancel the lease, the lessor's losses as­so­ci­ated with the can­cel­la­tion are borne by the lessee
gains or losses from fluc­tu­a­tions in the fair value of the residual fall to the lessee (for example, by means of a rebate of lease payments)
the lessee has the ability to continue to lease for a secondary period at a rent that is sub­stan­tially lower than market rent
When a lease includes both land and buildings elements, an entity assesses the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of each element as a finance or an operating lease sep­a­rately. In de­ter­min­ing whether the land element is an operating or a finance lease, an important con­sid­er­a­tion is that land normally has an in­def­i­nite economic life [IAS 17.15A]. Whenever necessary in order to classify and account for a lease of land and buildings, the minimum lease payments (including any lump-sum upfront payments) are allocated between the land and the buildings elements in pro­por­tion to the relative fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and buildings element of the lease at the inception of the lease. [IAS 17.16] For a lease of land and buildings in which the amount that would initially be recog­nised for the land element is im­ma­te­r­ial, the land and buildings may be treated as a single unit for the purpose of lease clas­si­fi­ca­tion and clas­si­fied as a finance or operating lease. [IAS 17.17] However, separate mea­sure­ment of the land and buildings elements is not required if the lessee's interest in both land and buildings is clas­si­fied as an in­vest­ment property in ac­cor­dance with IAS 40 and the fair value model is adopted. [IAS 17.18]
Accounting by lessees
The following prin­ci­ples should be applied in the financial state­ments of lessees:
at com­mence­ment of the lease term, finance leases should be recorded as an asset and a liability at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments (dis­counted at the interest rate implicit in the lease, if prac­ti­ca­ble, or else at the entity's in­cre­men­tal borrowing rate) [IAS 17.20]
finance lease payments should be ap­por­tioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the out­stand­ing liability (the finance charge to be allocated so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability) [IAS 17.25]
the de­pre­ci­a­tion policy for assets held under finance leases should be con­sis­tent with that for owned assets. If there is no rea­son­able certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership at the end of the lease – the asset should be de­pre­ci­ated over the shorter of the lease term or the life of the asset [IAS 17.27]
for operating leases, the lease payments should be recog­nised as an expense in the income statement over the lease term on a straight-line basis, unless another sys­tem­atic basis is more rep­re­sen­ta­tive of the time pattern of the user's benefit [IAS 17.33]
In­cen­tives for the agreement of a new or renewed operating lease should be recog­nised by the lessee as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term, ir­re­spec­tive of the incentive's nature or form, or the timing of payments. [SIC-15]
Accounting by lessors
The following prin­ci­ples should be applied in the financial state­ments of lessors:
at com­mence­ment of the lease term, the lessor should record a finance lease in the balance sheet as a re­ceiv­able, at an amount equal to the net in­vest­ment in the lease [IAS 17.36]
the lessor should recognise finance income based on a pattern re­flect­ing a constant periodic rate of return on the lessor's net in­vest­ment out­stand­ing in respect of the finance lease [IAS 17.39]
assets held for operating leases should be presented in the balance sheet of the lessor according to the nature of the asset. [IAS 17.49] Lease income should be recog­nised over the lease term on a straight-line basis, unless another sys­tem­atic basis is more rep­re­sen­ta­tive of the time pattern in which use benefit is derived from the leased asset is di­min­ished [IAS 17.50]
In­cen­tives for the agreement of a new or renewed operating lease should be recog­nised by the lessor as a reduction of the rental income over the lease term, ir­re­spec­tive of the incentive's nature or form, or the timing of payments. [SIC-15]
Man­u­fac­tur­ers or dealer lessors should include selling profit or loss in the same period as they would for an outright sale. If ar­ti­fi­cially low rates of interest are charged, selling profit should be re­stricted to that which would apply if a com­mer­cial rate of interest were charged. [IAS 17.42]
Under the 2003 revisions to IAS 17, initial direct and in­cre­men­tal costs incurred by lessors in ne­go­ti­at­ing leases must be recog­nised over the lease term. They may no longer be charged to expense when incurred. This treatment does not apply to man­u­fac­turer or dealer lessors where such cost recog­ni­tion is as an expense when the selling profit is recog­nised.
Sale and leaseback trans­ac­tions
For a sale and leaseback trans­ac­tion that results in a finance lease, any excess of proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and amortised over the lease term. [IAS 17.59]
For a trans­ac­tion that results in an operating lease: [IAS 17.61]
if the trans­ac­tion is clearly carried out at fair value - the profit or loss should be recog­nised im­me­di­ately
if the sale price is below fair value - profit or loss should be recog­nised im­me­di­ately, except if a loss is com­pen­sated for by future rentals at below market price, the loss should be amortised over the period of use
if the sale price is above fair value - the excess over fair value should be deferred and amortised over the period of use
if the fair value at the time of the trans­ac­tion is less than the carrying amount – a loss equal to the dif­fer­ence should be recog­nised im­me­di­ately [IAS 17.63]
Dis­clo­sure: lessees – finance leases [IAS 17.31]
carrying amount of asset
rec­on­cil­i­a­tion between total minimum lease payments and their present value
amounts of minimum lease payments at balance sheet date and the present value thereof, for:
the next year
years 2 through 5 combined
beyond five years
con­tin­gent rent recog­nised as an expense
total future minimum sublease income under non­can­cellable subleases
general de­scrip­tion of sig­nif­i­cant leasing arrange­ments, including con­tin­gent rent pro­vi­sions, renewal or purchase options, and re­stric­tions imposed on dividends, bor­row­ings, or further leasing
Dis­clo­sure: lessees – operating leases [IAS 17.35]
amounts of minimum lease payments at balance sheet date under non­can­cellable operating leases for:
the next year
years 2 through 5 combined
beyond five years
total future minimum sublease income under non­can­cellable subleases
lease and sublease payments recog­nised in income for the period
con­tin­gent rent recog­nised as an expense
general de­scrip­tion of sig­nif­i­cant leasing arrange­ments, including con­tin­gent rent pro­vi­sions, renewal or purchase options, and re­stric­tions imposed on dividends, bor­row­ings, or further leasing
Dis­clo­sure: lessors – finance leases [IAS 17.47]
rec­on­cil­i­a­tion between gross in­vest­ment in the lease and the present value of minimum lease payments;
gross in­vest­ment and present value of minimum lease payments re­ceiv­able for:
the next year
years 2 through 5 combined
beyond five years
unearned finance income
un­guar­an­teed residual values
ac­cu­mu­lated allowance for un­col­lectible lease payments re­ceiv­able
con­tin­gent rent recog­nised in income
general de­scrip­tion of sig­nif­i­cant leasing arrange­ments
Dis­clo­sure: lessors – operating leases [IAS 17.56]
amounts of minimum lease payments at balance sheet date under non­can­cellable operating leases in the aggregate and for:
the next year
years 2 through 5 combined
beyond five years
con­tin­gent rent recog­nised as in income
general de­scrip­tion of sig­nif­i­cant leasing arrange­ments
IAS 18 — Revenue
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 18 Revenue outlines the accounting re­quire­ments for when to recognise revenue from the sale of goods, rendering of services, and for interest, royalties and dividends. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the con­sid­er­a­tion received or re­ceiv­able and recog­nised when pre­scribed con­di­tions are met, which depend on the nature of the revenue.
IAS 18 was reissued in December 1993 and is operative for periods beginning on or after 1 January 1995.
History of IAS 18
April 1981 Exposure Draft E20 Revenue Recog­ni­tion
December 1982 IAS 18 Revenue Recog­ni­tion
1 January 1984 Effective date of IAS 18 (1982)
May 1992 E41 Revenue Recog­ni­tion
December 1993 IAS 18 Revenue Recog­ni­tion (revised as part of the 'Com­pa­ra­bil­ity of Financial State­ments' project)
1 January 1995 Effective date of IAS 18 (1993) Revenue Recog­ni­tion
December 1998 Amended by IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment, effective 1 January 2001
16 April 2009 Appendix to IAS 18 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009. It now provides guidance for de­ter­min­ing whether an entity is acting as a principal or as an agent.
1 January 2018 IAS 18 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers
IFRIC 15 Agree­ments for the Con­struc­tion of Real Estate
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Pro­grammes
IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments
SIC-27 Eval­u­at­ing the Substance of Trans­ac­tions in the Legal Form of a Lease
SIC-31 Revenue – Barter Trans­ac­tions Involving Ad­ver­tis­ing Services
Summary of IAS 18
Objective of IAS 18
The objective of IAS 18 is to prescribe the accounting treatment for revenue arising from certain types of trans­ac­tions and events.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tion
Revenue: the gross inflow of economic benefits (cash, re­ceiv­ables, other assets) arising from the ordinary operating ac­tiv­i­ties of an entity (such as sales of goods, sales of services, interest, royalties, and dividends). [IAS 18.7]
Mea­sure­ment of revenue
Revenue should be measured at the fair value of the con­sid­er­a­tion received or re­ceiv­able. [IAS 18.9] An exchange for goods or services of a similar nature and value is not regarded as a trans­ac­tion that generates revenue. However, exchanges for dis­sim­i­lar items are regarded as gen­er­at­ing revenue. [IAS 18.12]
If the inflow of cash or cash equiv­a­lents is deferred, the fair value of the con­sid­er­a­tion re­ceiv­able is less than the nominal amount of cash and cash equiv­a­lents to be received, and dis­count­ing is ap­pro­pri­ate. This would occur, for instance, if the seller is providing in­ter­est-free credit to the buyer or is charging a be­low-mar­ket rate of interest. Interest must be imputed based on market rates. [IAS 18.11]
Recog­ni­tion of revenue
Recog­ni­tion, as defined in the IASB Framework, means in­cor­po­rat­ing an item that meets the de­f­i­n­i­tion of revenue (above) in the income statement when it meets the following criteria:
it is probable that any future economic benefit as­so­ci­ated with the item of revenue will flow to the entity, and
the amount of revenue can be measured with re­li­a­bil­ity
IAS 18 provides guidance for recog­nis­ing the following specific cat­e­gories of revenue:
Sale of goods
Revenue arising from the sale of goods should be recog­nised when all of the following criteria have been satisfied: [IAS 18.14]
the seller has trans­ferred to the buyer the sig­nif­i­cant risks and rewards of ownership
the seller retains neither con­tin­u­ing man­age­r­ial in­volve­ment to the degree usually as­so­ci­ated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably
it is probable that the economic benefits as­so­ci­ated with the trans­ac­tion will flow to the seller, and
the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the trans­ac­tion can be measured reliably
Rendering of services
For revenue arising from the rendering of services, provided that all of the following criteria are met, revenue should be recog­nised by reference to the stage of com­ple­tion of the trans­ac­tion at the balance sheet date (the per­cent­age-of-com­ple­tion method): [IAS 18.20]
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the seller;
the stage of com­ple­tion at the balance sheet date can be measured reliably; and
the costs incurred, or to be incurred, in respect of the trans­ac­tion can be measured reliably.
When the above criteria are not met, revenue arising from the rendering of services should be recog­nised only to the extent of the expenses recog­nised that are re­cov­er­able (a "cost-re­cov­ery approach". [IAS 18.26]
Interest, royalties, and dividends
For interest, royalties and dividends, provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the en­ter­prise and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, revenue should be recog­nised as follows: [IAS 18.29-30]
interest: using the effective interest method as set out in IAS 39
royalties: on an accruals basis in ac­cor­dance with the substance of the relevant agreement
dividends: when the share­holder's right to receive payment is es­tab­lished
Dis­clo­sure [IAS 18.35]
accounting policy for recog­nis­ing revenue
amount of each of the following types of revenue:
sale of goods
rendering of services
interest
royalties
dividends
within each of the above cat­e­gories, the amount of revenue from exchanges of goods or services
Im­ple­men­ta­tion guidance
Appendix A to IAS 18 provides il­lus­tra­tive examples of how the above prin­ci­ples apply to certain trans­ac­tions.
IAS 19 — Employee Benefits (1998) (superseded)
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (1998) outlines the accounting re­quire­ments for employee benefits, including short-term benefits (e.g. wages and salaries, annual leave), post-em­ploy­ment benefits such as re­tire­ment benefits, other long-term benefits (e.g. long service leave) and ter­mi­na­tion benefits. The standard es­tab­lishes the principle that the cost of providing employee benefits should be recog­nised in the period in which the benefit is earned by the employee, rather than when it is paid or payable, and outlines how each category of employee benefits are measured, providing detailed guidance in par­tic­u­lar about post-em­ploy­ment benefits.
IAS 19 (1998) is su­per­seded by an amended version, IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IAS 19
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
April 1980 Exposure Draft E16 Accounting for Re­tire­ment Benefits in Financial State­ments of Employers published
January 1983 IAS 19 Accounting for Re­tire­ment Benefits in Financial State­ments of Employers issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1985
December 1992 E47 Re­tire­ment Benefit Costs published
December 1993 IAS 19 Re­tire­ment Benefit Costs issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1995
October 1996 E54 Employee Benefits published Comment deadline 31 January 1997
February 1998 IAS 19 Employee Benefits issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1999
July 2000 E67 Pension Plan Assets published
October 2000 Amended to change the de­f­i­n­i­tion of plan assets and to introduce recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment and dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments for re­im­burse­ments Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2001
May 2002 Amended to prevent the recog­ni­tion of gains solely as a result of actuarial losses or past service cost and the recog­ni­tion of losses solely as a result of actuarial gains Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods ending on or after 31 May 2002
5 December 2002 ED 2 Share-based Payment published, proposing to replace the equity com­pen­sa­tion benefits re­quire­ments of IAS 19 Comment deadline 7 March 2003
February 2004 Equity com­pen­sa­tion benefits re­quire­ments replaced by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
29 April 2004 Exposure Draft Proposed Amend­ments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Dis­clo­sures published Comment deadline 31 July 2004
19 December 2004 Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Dis­clo­sures issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
22 May 2008 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (negative past service costs and cur­tail­ments) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
20 August 2009 ED/2009/10 Discount Rate for Employee Benefits (Proposed amend­ments to IAS 19) published Comment deadline 30 September 2009
(proposals were not finalised)
29 April 2010 ED/2010/3 Defined Benefit Plans (Proposed amend­ments to IAS 19) published Comment deadline 6 September 2010
16 June 2011 Su­per­seded by IAS 19 Employee Benefits (amended 2011) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Re­quire­ments and their In­ter­ac­tion
Summary of IAS 19 (1998)
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (1998) is su­per­seded by an amended version,  IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The summary that follows refers to IAS 19 (1998). Readers in­ter­ested in the re­quire­ments of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011) should refer to our summary of IAS 19 (2011).
Objective of IAS 19
The objective of IAS 19 (1998) is to prescribe the accounting and dis­clo­sure for employee benefits (that is, all forms of con­sid­er­a­tion given by an entity in exchange for service rendered by employees). The principle un­der­ly­ing all of the detailed re­quire­ments of the Standard is that the cost of providing employee benefits should be recog­nised in the period in which the benefit is earned by the employee, rather than when it is paid or payable.
Scope
IAS 19 (1998) applies to (among other kinds of employee benefits):
wages and salaries
com­pen­sated absences (paid vacation and sick leave)
profit sharing plans
bonuses
medical and life insurance benefits during em­ploy­ment
housing benefits
free or sub­sidised goods or services given to employees
pension benefits
post-em­ploy­ment medical and life insurance benefits
long-ser­vice or sab­bat­i­cal leave
'jubilee' benefits
deferred com­pen­sa­tion pro­grammes
ter­mi­na­tion benefits.
IAS 19 (1998) does not apply to employee benefits within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment or the reporting by employee benefit plans (see IAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Re­tire­ment Benefit Plans).
Basic principle of IAS 19 (1998)
The cost of providing employee benefits should be recog­nised in the period in which the benefit is earned by the employee, rather than when it is paid or payable.
Short-term employee benefits
For short-term employee benefits (those payable within 12 months after service is rendered, such as wages, paid vacation and sick leave, bonuses, and non-mon­e­tary benefits such as medical care and housing), the undis­counted amount of the benefits expected to be paid in respect of service rendered by employees in a period should be recog­nised in that period. [IAS 19(1998).10] The expected cost of short-term com­pen­sated absences should be recog­nised as the employees render service that increases their en­ti­tle­ment or, in the case of non-ac­cu­mu­lat­ing absences, when the absences occur. [IAS 19(1998).11]
Profit-shar­ing and bonus payments
The entity should recognise the expected cost of profit-shar­ing and bonus payments when, and only when, it has a legal or con­struc­tive oblig­a­tion to make such payments as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the expected cost can be made. [IAS 19(1998).17]
Types of post-em­ploy­ment benefit plans
The accounting treatment for a post-em­ploy­ment benefit plan depends on whether the plan is a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan or a defined benefit plan:
Under a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan, the entity pays fixed con­tri­bu­tions into a fund but has no legal or con­struc­tive oblig­a­tion to make further payments if the fund does not have suf­fi­cient assets to pay all of the employees' en­ti­tle­ments to post-em­ploy­ment benefits
A defined benefit plan is a post-em­ploy­ment benefit plan other than a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan. These would include both formal plans and those informal practices that create a con­struc­tive oblig­a­tion to the entity's employees.
Defined con­tri­bu­tion plans
For defined con­tri­bu­tion plans, the cost to be recog­nised in the period is the con­tri­bu­tion payable in exchange for service rendered by employees during the period. [IAS 19(1998).44]
If con­tri­bu­tions to a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan do not fall due within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employee renders the service, they are dis­counted to their present value. [IAS 19(1998).45]
Defined benefit plans
For defined benefit plans, the amount recog­nised in the statement of financial position is the present value of the defined benefit oblig­a­tion (that is, the present value of expected future payments required to settle the oblig­a­tion resulting from employee service in the current and prior periods), as adjusted for un­recog­nised actuarial gains and losses and un­recog­nised past service cost, and reduced by the fair value of plan assets at the end of the reporting period. [IAS 19(1998).54]
The present value of the defined benefit oblig­a­tion should be de­ter­mined using the Projected Unit Credit Method. [IAS 19(1998).64] Val­u­a­tions should be carried out with suf­fi­cient reg­u­lar­ity such that the amounts recog­nised in the financial state­ments do not differ ma­te­ri­ally from those that would be de­ter­mined at the end of the reporting period. [IAS 19(1998).56] The as­sump­tions used for the purposes of such val­u­a­tions must be unbiased and mutually com­pat­i­ble. [IAS 19(1998).72] The rate used to discount estimated cash flows is de­ter­mined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds, or where there is no deep market in such bonds, by reference to market yields on gov­ern­ment bonds. [IAS 19(1998).78]
On an ongoing basis, actuarial gains and losses arise that comprise ex­pe­ri­ence ad­just­ments (the effects of dif­fer­ences between the previous actuarial as­sump­tions and what has actually occurred) and the effects of changes in actuarial as­sump­tions. In the long-term, actuarial gains and losses may offset one another and, as a result, the entity is not required to recognise all such gains and losses in profit or loss im­me­di­ately. IAS 19 (1998) specifies that if the ac­cu­mu­lated un­recog­nised actuarial gains and losses exceed 10% of the greater of the defined benefit oblig­a­tion or the fair value of plan assets, a portion of that net gain or loss is required to be recog­nised im­me­di­ately as income or expense. The portion recog­nised is the excess divided by the expected average remaining working lives of the par­tic­i­pat­ing employees. Actuarial gains and losses that do not breach the 10% limits described above (the 'corridor') need not be recog­nised - although the entity may choose to do so. [IAS 19(1998).92-93]
In December 2004, the IASB issued amend­ments to IAS 19 (1998) to allow the option of recog­nis­ing actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur, outside profit or loss, in other com­pre­hen­sive income. This option is similar to the re­quire­ments of the UK standard, FRS 17 Re­tire­ment Benefits. The Board concluded that, pending further work on post-em­ploy­ment benefits and on reporting com­pre­hen­sive income, the approach in FRS 17 should be available as an option to preparers of financial state­ments using IFRSs. [IAS 19(1998).93A]
Over the life of the plan, changes in benefits under the plan will result in increases or decreases in the entity's oblig­a­tion.
Past service cost is the term used to describe the change in the oblig­a­tion for employee service in prior periods, arising as a result of changes to plan arrange­ments in the current period. Past service cost may be either positive (where benefits are in­tro­duced or improved) or negative (where existing benefits are reduced). Past service cost is recog­nised im­me­di­ately to the extent that it relates to former employees or to active employees already vested. Otherwise, it is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the amended benefits become vested. [IAS 19(1998).96]
Plan cur­tail­ments or set­tle­ments: Gains or losses resulting from cur­tail­ments or set­tle­ments of a plan are recog­nised when the cur­tail­ment or set­tle­ment occurs. [IAS 19(1998).109-110] Cur­tail­ments are re­duc­tions in scope of employees covered or in benefits.
If the cal­cu­la­tion of the statement of financial position amount set out above results in an asset, the amount recog­nised is limited to the net total of un­recog­nised actuarial losses and past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and re­duc­tions in future con­tri­bu­tions to the plan. [IAS 19(1998).58]
The IASB issued the final 'asset ceiling' amendment to IAS 19 (1998) in May 2002. The amendment prevents the recog­ni­tion of gains solely as a result of deferral of actuarial losses or past service cost, and prohibits the recog­ni­tion of losses solely as a result of deferral of actuarial gains. [IAS 19(1998).58A]
The amount recog­nised in the profit or loss (unless included in the cost of an asset under another Standard) in a period in respect of a defined benefit plan is made up of the following com­po­nents: [IAS 19(1998).61]
current service cost (the actuarial estimate of benefits earned by employee service in the period)
interest cost (the increase in the present value of the oblig­a­tion as a result of moving one period closer to set­tle­ment)
expected return on plan assets* and on any re­im­burse­ment rights
actuarial gains and losses, to the extent recog­nised
past service cost, to the extent recog­nised
the effect of any plan cur­tail­ments or set­tle­ments
the effect of 'asset ceiling'
*The return on plan assets is interest, dividends and other revenue derived from the plan assets, together with realised and un­re­alised gains or losses on the plan assets, less any costs of ad­min­is­ter­ing the plan (other than those included in the actuarial as­sump­tions used to measure the defined benefit oblig­a­tion) and less any tax payable by the plan itself. [IAS 19(1998).7]
IAS 19 (1998) contains detailed dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments for defined benefit plans. [IAS 19(1998).120-125]
IAS 19 (1998) also provides guidance on al­lo­cat­ing the cost in:
a multi-em­ployer plan to the in­di­vid­ual en­ti­ties-em­ploy­ers [IAS 19(1998).29-33]
a group defined benefit plan to the entities in the group [IAS 19(1998).34-34B]
a state plan to par­tic­i­pat­ing entities [IAS 19(1998).36-38].
Other long-term benefits
IAS 19 (1998) requires a sim­pli­fied ap­pli­ca­tion of the model described above for other long-term employee benefits. This method differs from the accounting required for post-em­ploy­ment benefits in that: [IAS 19(1998).128-129]
actuarial gains and losses are recog­nised im­me­di­ately without the ap­pli­ca­tion of a 'corridor' (as discussed above for post-em­ploy­ment benefits)
all past service costs are recog­nised im­me­di­ately.
Ter­mi­na­tion benefits
For ter­mi­na­tion benefits, IAS 19 (1998) specifies that amounts payable should be recog­nised when, and only when, the entity is demon­stra­bly committed to either: [IAS 19(1998).133]
terminate the em­ploy­ment of an employee or group of employees before the normal re­tire­ment date, or
provide ter­mi­na­tion benefits as a result of an offer made in order to encourage voluntary re­dun­dancy.
The entity will be demon­stra­bly committed to a ter­mi­na­tion when, and only when, it has a detailed formal plan (meeting minimum outlined re­quire­ments) for the ter­mi­na­tion and is without realistic pos­si­bil­ity of with­drawal. [IAS 19(1998).134] Where ter­mi­na­tion benefits fall due after more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, they are dis­counted. [IAS 19(1998).139]
IAS 19 — Employee Benefits (2011)
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (amended 2011) outlines the accounting re­quire­ments for employee benefits, including short-term benefits (e.g. wages and salaries, annual leave), post-em­ploy­ment benefits such as re­tire­ment benefits, other long-term benefits (e.g. long service leave) and ter­mi­na­tion benefits. The standard es­tab­lishes the principle that the cost of providing employee benefits should be recog­nised in the period in which the benefit is earned by the employee, rather than when it is paid or payable, and outlines how each category of employee benefits are measured, providing detailed guidance in par­tic­u­lar about post-em­ploy­ment benefits.
IAS 19 (2011) was issued in 2011, su­per­sedes IAS 19 Employee Benefits (1998), and is ap­plic­a­ble to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IAS 19
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
April 1980 Exposure Draft E16 Accounting for Re­tire­ment Benefits in Financial State­ments of Employers published
January 1983 IAS 19 Accounting for Re­tire­ment Benefits in Financial State­ments of Employers issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1985
December 1992 E47 Re­tire­ment Benefit Costs published
December 1993 IAS 19 Re­tire­ment Benefit Costs issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1995
October 1996 E54 Employee Benefits published Comment deadline 31 January 1997
February 1998 IAS 19 Employee Benefits issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1999
July 2000 E67 Pension Plan Assets published
October 2000 Amended to change the de­f­i­n­i­tion of plan assets and to introduce recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment and dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments for re­im­burse­ments Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2001
May 2002 Amended to prevent the recog­ni­tion of gains solely as a result of actuarial losses or past service cost and the recog­ni­tion of losses solely as a result of actuarial gains Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods ending on or after 31 May 2002
5 December 2002 ED 2 Share-based Payment published, proposing to replace the equity com­pen­sa­tion benefits re­quire­ments of IAS 19 Comment deadline 7 March 2003
February 2004 Equity com­pen­sa­tion benefits re­quire­ments replaced by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
29 April 2004 Exposure Draft Proposed Amend­ments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Dis­clo­sures published Comment deadline 31 July 2004
19 December 2004 Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Dis­clo­sures issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
22 May 2008 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (negative past service costs and cur­tail­ments) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
20 August 2009 ED/2009/10 Discount Rate for Employee Benefits (Proposed amend­ments to IAS 19) published Comment deadline 30 September 2009
(proposals were not finalised)
29 April 2010 ED/2010/3 Defined Benefit Plans (Proposed amend­ments to IAS 19) published Comment deadline 6 September 2010
16 June 2011 IAS 19 Employee Benefits (amended 2011) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
25 March 2013 ED/2013/4 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Con­tri­bu­tions (Proposed amend­ments to IAS 19) published Comment deadline 25 July 2013
21 November 2013 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Con­tri­bu­tions (Amend­ments to IAS 19) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
25 September 2014 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2014 (discount rate: regional market issue) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
7 February 2018 Plan Amendment, Cur­tail­ment or Set­tle­ment (Amend­ments to IAS 19) issued
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Re­quire­ments and their In­ter­ac­tion
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
IAS 19/IFRIC 14 — Re­mea­sure­ment at a plan amendment, cur­tail­ment or set­tle­ment / Avail­abil­ity of a refund of a surplus from a defined benefit plan
Post-em­ploy­ment Benefits — Com­pre­hen­sive re­con­sid­er­a­tion of IAS 19 (longer term project)
Summary of IAS 19 (2011)
Amended version of IAS 19 issued in 2011
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011) is an amended version of, and su­per­sedes, IAS 19 Employee Benefits (1998), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The summary that follows refers to IAS 19 (2011). Readers in­ter­ested in the re­quire­ments of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (1998) should refer to our summary of IAS 19 (1998).
Changes in­tro­duced by IAS 19 (2011) as compared to IAS 19 (1998) include:
In­tro­duc­ing a re­quire­ment to fully recognise changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) including immediate recog­ni­tion of defined benefit costs, and require dis­ag­gre­ga­tion of the overall defined benefit cost into com­po­nents and requiring the recog­ni­tion of re­mea­sure­ments in other com­pre­hen­sive income (elim­i­nat­ing the 'corridor' approach)
In­tro­duc­ing enhanced dis­clo­sures about defined benefit plans
Mod­i­fi­ca­tions to the accounting for ter­mi­na­tion benefits, including dis­tin­guish­ing between benefits provided in exchange for service and benefits provided in exchange for the ter­mi­na­tion of em­ploy­ment, and changing the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of ter­mi­na­tion benefits
Clar­i­fi­ca­tion of mis­cel­la­neous issues, including the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of employee benefits, current estimates of mortality rates, tax and ad­min­is­tra­tion costs and risk-shar­ing and con­di­tional in­dex­a­tion features
In­cor­po­rat­ing other matters submitted to the IFRS In­ter­pre­ta­tions Committee.
Objective of IAS 19 (2011)
The objective of IAS 19 is to prescribe the accounting and dis­clo­sure for employee benefits, requiring an entity to recognise a liability where an employee has provided service and an expense when the entity consumes the economic benefits of employee service. [IAS 19(2011).2]
Scope
IAS 19 applies to (among other kinds of employee benefits):
wages and salaries
com­pen­sated absences (paid vacation and sick leave)
profit sharing and bonuses
medical and life insurance benefits during em­ploy­ment
non-mon­e­tary benefits such as houses, cars, and free or sub­sidised goods or services
re­tire­ment benefits, including pensions and lump sum payments
post-em­ploy­ment medical and life insurance benefits
long-ser­vice or sab­bat­i­cal leave
'jubilee' benefits
deferred com­pen­sa­tion pro­grammes
ter­mi­na­tion benefits.
IAS 19 (2011) does not apply to employee benefits within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment or the reporting by employee benefit plans (see IAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Re­tire­ment Benefit Plans).
Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits are those expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual reporting period during which employee services are rendered, but do not include ter­mi­na­tion benefits.[IAS 19(2011).8] Examples include wages, salaries, profit-shar­ing and bonuses and non-mon­e­tary benefits paid to current employees.
The undis­counted amount of the benefits expected to be paid in respect of service rendered by employees in an accounting period is recog­nised in that period. [IAS 19(2011).11] The expected cost of short-term com­pen­sated absences is recog­nised as the employees render service that increases their en­ti­tle­ment or, in the case of non-ac­cu­mu­lat­ing absences, when the absences occur, and includes any ad­di­tional amounts an entity expects to pay as a result of unused en­ti­tle­ments at the end of the period. [IAS 19(2011).13-16]
Profit-shar­ing and bonus payments
An entity recog­nises the expected cost of profit-shar­ing and bonus payments when, and only when, it has a legal or con­struc­tive oblig­a­tion to make such payments as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the expected oblig­a­tion can be made. [IAS 19.19]
Types of post-em­ploy­ment benefit plans
Post-em­ploy­ment benefit plans are informal or formal arrange­ments where an entity provides post-em­ploy­ment benefits to one or more employees, e.g. re­tire­ment benefits (pensions or lump sum payments), life insurance and medical care.
The accounting treatment for a post-em­ploy­ment benefit plan depends on the economic substance of the plan and results in the plan being clas­si­fied as either a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan or a defined benefit plan:
Defined con­tri­bu­tion plans. Under a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan, the entity pays fixed con­tri­bu­tions into a fund but has no legal or con­struc­tive oblig­a­tion to make further payments if the fund does not have suf­fi­cient assets to pay all of the employees' en­ti­tle­ments to post-em­ploy­ment benefits. The entity's oblig­a­tion is therefore ef­fec­tively limited to the amount it agrees to con­tribute to the fund and ef­fec­tively place actuarial and in­vest­ment risk on the employee
Defined benefit plans These are post-em­ploy­ment benefit plans other than a defined con­tri­bu­tion plans. These plans create an oblig­a­tion on the entity to provide agreed benefits to current and past employees and ef­fec­tively places actuarial and in­vest­ment risk on the entity.
Defined con­tri­bu­tion plans
For defined con­tri­bu­tion plans, the amount recog­nised in the period is the con­tri­bu­tion payable in exchange for service rendered by employees during the period. [IAS 19(2011).51]
Con­tri­bu­tions to a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan which are not expected to be wholly settled within 12 months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employee renders the related service are dis­counted to their present value. [IAS 19.52]
Defined benefit plans
Basic re­quire­ments
An entity is required to recognise the net defined benefit liability or asset in its statement of financial position. [IAS 19(2011).63] However, the mea­sure­ment of a net defined benefit asset is the lower of any surplus in the fund and the 'asset ceiling' (i.e. the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or re­duc­tions in future con­tri­bu­tions to the plan). [IAS 19(2011).64]
Mea­sure­ment
The mea­sure­ment of a net defined benefit liability or assets requires the ap­pli­ca­tion of an actuarial valuation method, the at­tri­bu­tion of benefits to periods of service, and the use of actuarial as­sump­tions. [IAS 19(2011).66] The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit oblig­a­tion in de­ter­min­ing the net deficit or surplus. [IAS 19(2011).113]
The de­ter­mi­na­tion of the net defined benefit liability (or asset) is carried out with suf­fi­cient reg­u­lar­ity such that the amounts recog­nised in the financial state­ments do not differ ma­te­ri­ally from those that would be de­ter­mined at end of the reporting period. [IAS 19(2011).58]
The present value of an entity's defined benefit oblig­a­tions and related service costs is de­ter­mined using the 'projected unit credit method', which sees each period of service as giving rise to an ad­di­tional unit of benefit en­ti­tle­ment and measures each unit sep­a­rately in building up the final oblig­a­tion. [IAS 19(2011).67-68] This requires an entity to attribute benefit to the current period (to determine current service cost) and the current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit oblig­a­tions). Benefit is at­trib­uted to periods of service using the plan's benefit formula, unless an employee's service in later years will lead to a ma­te­ri­ally higher of benefit than in earlier years, in which case a straight-line basis is used [IAS 19(2011).70]
Actuarial as­sump­tions used in mea­sure­ment
The overall actuarial as­sump­tions used must be unbiased and mutually com­pat­i­ble, and represent the best estimate of the variables de­ter­min­ing the ultimate post-em­ploy­ment benefit cost. [IAS 19(2011).75-76]:
Financial as­sump­tions must be based on market ex­pec­ta­tions at the end of the reporting period [IAS 19(2011).80]
Mortality as­sump­tions are de­ter­mined by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan members during and after em­ploy­ment [IAS 19(2011).81]
The discount rate used is de­ter­mined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds, or where there is no deep market in such bonds, by reference to market yields on gov­ern­ment bonds. Cur­ren­cies and terms of bond yields used must be con­sis­tent with the currency and estimated term of the oblig­a­tion being dis­counted [IAS 19(2011).83]
As­sump­tions about expected salaries and benefits reflect the terms of the plan, future salary increases, any limits on the employer's share of cost, con­tri­bu­tions from employees or third parties*, and estimated future changes in state benefits that impact benefits payable [IAS 19(2011).87]
Medical cost as­sump­tions in­cor­po­rate future changes resulting from inflation and specific changes in medical costs [IAS 19(2011).96]
Updated actuarial as­sump­tions must be used to determine the current service cost and net interest for the remainder of the annual reporting period after a plan amendment, cur­tail­ment or set­tle­ment when an entity re­mea­sures its net defined benefit liability (asset) [IAS 19(2011).122A]*
* Added by Plan Amendment, Cur­tail­ment or Set­tle­ment (Amend­ments to IAS 19) in February 2018. The amend­ments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Past service costs
Past service cost is the term used to describe the change in a defined benefit oblig­a­tion for employee service in prior periods, arising as a result of changes to plan arrange­ments in the current period (i.e. plan amend­ments in­tro­duc­ing or changing benefits payable, or cur­tail­ments which sig­nif­i­cantly reduce the number of covered employees) .
Past service cost may be either positive (where benefits are in­tro­duced or improved) or negative (where existing benefits are reduced). Past service cost is recog­nised as an expense at the earlier of the date when a plan amendment or cur­tail­ment occurs and the date when an entity recog­nises any ter­mi­na­tion benefits, or related re­struc­tur­ing costs under IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets. [IAS 19(2011).103]
Gains or losses on the set­tle­ment of a defined benefit plan are recog­nised when the set­tle­ment occurs. [IAS 19(2011).110]
Before past service costs are de­ter­mined, or a gain or loss on set­tle­ment is recog­nised, the net defined benefit liability or asset is required to be re­mea­sured, however an entity is not required to dis­tin­guish between past service costs resulting from cur­tail­ments and gains and losses on set­tle­ment where these trans­ac­tions occur together. [IAS 19(2011).99-100]
Recog­ni­tion of defined benefit costs
The com­po­nents of defined benefit cost is recog­nised as follows: [IAS 19(2011).120-130]
Component Recog­ni­tion
Service cost at­trib­ut­able to the current and past periods Profit or loss
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset, de­ter­mined using the discount rate at the beginning of the period Profit or loss
Re­mea­sure­ments of the net defined benefit liability or asset, com­pris­ing:
actuarial gains and losses
return on plan assets
some changes in the effect of the asset ceiling
Other com­pre­hen­sive income
(Not re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss in a sub­se­quent period)
Other guidance
IAS 19 also provides guidance in relation to:
when an entity should recognise a re­im­burse­ment of ex­pen­di­ture to settle a defined benefit oblig­a­tion [IAS 19(2011).116-119]
when it is ap­pro­pri­ate to offset an asset relating to one plan against a liability relating to another plan [IAS 19(2011).131-132]
accounting for multi-em­ployer plans by in­di­vid­ual employers [IAS 19(2011).32-39]
defined benefit plans sharing risks between entities under common control [IAS 19.40-42]
entities par­tic­i­pat­ing in state plans [IAS 19(2011).43-45]
insurance premiums paid to fund post-em­ploy­ment benefit plans [IAS 19(2011).46-49]
Dis­clo­sures about defined benefit plans
IAS 19(2011) sets the following dis­clo­sure ob­jec­tives in relation to defined benefit plans [IAS 19(2011).135]:
an ex­pla­na­tion of the char­ac­ter­is­tics of an entity's defined benefit plans, and the as­so­ci­ated risks
iden­ti­fi­ca­tion and ex­pla­na­tion of the amounts arising in the financial state­ments from defined benefit plans
a de­scrip­tion of how defined benefit plans may affect the amount, timing and un­cer­tainty of the entity's future cash flows.
Extensive specific dis­clo­sures in relation to meeting each the above ob­jec­tives are specified, e.g. a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion from the opening balance to the closing balance of the net defined benefit liability or asset, dis­ag­gre­ga­tion of the fair value of plan assets into classes, and sen­si­tiv­ity analysis of each sig­nif­i­cant actuarial as­sump­tion. [IAS 19(2011).136-147]
Ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required in relation to multi-em­ployer plans and defined benefit plans sharing risk between entities under common control. [IAS 19(2011).148-150].
Other long-term benefits
IAS 19 (2011) pre­scribes a modified ap­pli­ca­tion of the post-em­ploy­ment benefit model described above for other long-term employee benefits: [IAS 19(2011).153-154]
the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of a surplus or deficit in an other long-term employee benefit plan is con­sis­tent with the re­quire­ments outlined above
service cost, net interest and re­mea­sure­ments are all recog­nised in profit or loss (unless recog­nised in the cost of an asset under another IFRS), i.e. when compared to accounting for defined benefit plans, the effects of re­mea­sure­ments are not recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income.
Ter­mi­na­tion benefits
A ter­mi­na­tion benefit liability is recog­nised at the earlier of the following dates: [IAS 19.165-168]
when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits - ad­di­tional guidance is provided on when this date occurs in relation to an employee's decision to accept an offer of benefits on ter­mi­na­tion, and as a result of an entity's decision to terminate an employee's em­ploy­ment
when the entity recog­nises costs for a re­struc­tur­ing under IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets which involves the payment of ter­mi­na­tion benefits.
Ter­mi­na­tion benefits are measured in ac­cor­dance with the nature of employee benefit, i.e. as an en­hance­ment of other post-em­ploy­ment benefits, or otherwise as a short-term employee benefit or other long-term employee benefit. [IAS 19(2011).169]
IAS 20 — Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 20 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance outlines how to account for gov­ern­ment grants and other as­sis­tance. Gov­ern­ment grants are recog­nised in profit or loss on a sys­tem­atic basis over the periods in which the entity recog­nises expenses for the related costs for which the grants are intended to com­pen­sate, which in the case of grants related to assets requires setting up the grant as deferred income or deducting it from the carrying amount of the asset.
IAS 20 was issued in April 1983 and is ap­plic­a­ble to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 1984.
History of IAS 20
September 1981 Exposure Draft E21 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance
April 1983 IAS 20 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance
1 January 1984 Effective date of IAS 20 (1983)
1994 IAS 20 (1983) was re­for­mat­ted
22 May 2008 IAS 20 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 to bring it in line with IAS 39 in respect of loans with the below mar­ket-rate of interest
1 January 2009 Effective date of May 2008 amendment to IAS 20
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
SIC-10 Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance – No Specific Relation to Operating Ac­tiv­i­ties
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Gov­ern­ment Grants – Re­con­sid­er­a­tion of IAS 20
Emission Trading Schemes
Summary of IAS 20
Objective of IAS 20
The objective of IAS 20 is to prescribe the accounting for, and dis­clo­sure of, gov­ern­ment grants and other forms of gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance.
Scope
IAS 20 applies to all gov­ern­ment grants and other forms of gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance. [IAS 20.1] However, it does not cover gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance that is provided in the form of benefits in de­ter­min­ing taxable income. It does not cover gov­ern­ment grants covered by IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture, either. [IAS 20.2] The benefit of a gov­ern­ment loan at a be­low-mar­ket rate of interest is treated as a gov­ern­ment grant. [IAS 20.10A]
Accounting for grants
A gov­ern­ment grant is recog­nised only when there is rea­son­able assurance that (a) the entity will comply with any con­di­tions attached to the grant and (b) the grant will be received. [IAS 20.7]
The grant is recog­nised as income over the period necessary to match them with the related costs, for which they are intended to com­pen­sate, on a sys­tem­atic basis. [IAS 20.12]
Non-mon­e­tary grants, such as land or other resources, are usually accounted for at fair value, although recording both the asset and the grant at a nominal amount is also permitted. [IAS 20.23]
Even if there are no con­di­tions attached to the as­sis­tance specif­i­cally relating to the operating ac­tiv­i­ties of the entity (other than the re­quire­ment to operate in certain regions or industry sectors), such grants should not be credited to equity. [SIC-10]
A grant re­ceiv­able as com­pen­sa­tion for costs already incurred or for immediate financial support, with no future related costs, should be recog­nised as income in the period in which it is re­ceiv­able. [IAS 20.20]
A grant relating to assets may be presented in one of two ways: [IAS 20.24]
as deferred income, or
by deducting the grant from the asset's carrying amount.
A grant relating to income may be reported sep­a­rately as 'other income' or deducted from the related expense. [IAS 20.29]
If a grant becomes repayable, it should be treated as a change in estimate. Where the original grant related to income, the repayment should be applied first against any related un­amor­tised deferred credit, and any excess should be dealt with as an expense. Where the original grant related to an asset, the repayment should be treated as in­creas­ing the carrying amount of the asset or reducing the deferred income balance. The cu­mu­la­tive de­pre­ci­a­tion which would have been charged had the grant not been received should be charged as an expense. [IAS 20.32]
Dis­clo­sure of gov­ern­ment grants
The following must be disclosed: [IAS 20.39]
accounting policy adopted for grants, including method of balance sheet pre­sen­ta­tion
nature and extent of grants recog­nised in the financial state­ments
un­ful­filled con­di­tions and con­tin­gen­cies attaching to recog­nised grants
Gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance
Gov­ern­ment grants do not include gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance whose value cannot be rea­son­ably measured, such as technical or marketing advice. [IAS 20.34] Dis­clo­sure of the benefits is required. [IAS 20.39(b)]
IAS 21 — The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates outlines how to account for foreign currency trans­ac­tions and op­er­a­tions in financial state­ments, and also how to translate financial state­ments into a pre­sen­ta­tion currency. An entity is required to determine a func­tional currency (for each of its op­er­a­tions if necessary) based on the primary economic en­vi­ron­ment in which it operates and generally records foreign currency trans­ac­tions using the spot con­ver­sion rate to that func­tional currency on the date of the trans­ac­tion.
IAS 21 was reissued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IAS 21
December 1977 Exposure Draft E11 Accounting for Foreign Trans­ac­tions and Trans­la­tion of Foreign Financial State­ments
March 1982 E11 was modified and re-ex­posed as Exposure Draft E23 Accounting for the Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
July 1983 IAS 21 Accounting for the Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
1 January 1985 Effective date of IAS 21 (1983)
1993 IAS 21 (1983) was revised as part of the com­pa­ra­bil­ity of financial state­ments project
May 1992 Exposure Draft E44 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
December 1993 IAS 21 (1993) The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (revised as part of the 'Com­pa­ra­bil­ity of Financial State­ments' project)
1 January 1995 Effective date of IAS 21 (1993)
18 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 21 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 21 (Revised 2003)
December 2005 Minor Amendment to IAS 21 relating to net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation
1 January 2006 Effective date of the December 2005 amend­ments
10 January 2008 Some revisions of IAS 21 as a result of the Business Com­bi­na­tions Phase II Project relating to disposals of foreign op­er­a­tions
1 July 2009 Effective date of the January 2008 amend­ments
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 16 Hedge of a Net In­vest­ment in a Foreign Operation
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Trans­ac­tions and Advance Con­sid­er­a­tion
SIC-30 Reporting Currency – Trans­la­tion from Mea­sure­ment Currency to Pre­sen­ta­tion Currency. SIC-30 was su­per­seded and in­cor­po­rated into the 2003 revision of IAS 21.
SIC-19 Reporting Currency – Mea­sure­ment and Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments under IAS 21 and IAS 29. SIC-19 was su­per­seded and in­cor­po­rated into the 2003 revision of IAS 21.
SIC-11 Foreign Exchange – Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of Losses Resulting from Severe Currency De­val­u­a­tions. SIC-11 was su­per­seded and in­cor­po­rated into the 2003 revision of IAS 21.
SIC-7 In­tro­duc­tion of the Euro
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Research project — Foreign currency trans­la­tion
Summary of IAS 21
Objective of IAS 21
The objective of IAS 21 is to prescribe how to include foreign currency trans­ac­tions and foreign op­er­a­tions in the financial state­ments of an entity and how to translate financial state­ments into a pre­sen­ta­tion currency. [IAS 21.1] The principal issues are which exchange rate(s) to use and how to report the effects of changes in exchange rates in the financial state­ments. [IAS 21.2]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 21.8]
Func­tional currency: the currency of the primary economic en­vi­ron­ment in which the entity operates. (The term 'func­tional currency' was used in the 2003 revision of IAS 21 in place of 'mea­sure­ment currency' but with es­sen­tially the same meaning.)
Pre­sen­ta­tion currency: the currency in which financial state­ments are presented.
Exchange dif­fer­ence: the dif­fer­ence resulting from trans­lat­ing a given number of units of one currency into another currency at different exchange rates.
Foreign operation: a sub­sidiary, associate, joint venture, or branch whose ac­tiv­i­ties are based in a country or currency other than that of the reporting entity.
Basic steps for trans­lat­ing foreign currency amounts into the func­tional currency
Steps apply to a stand-alone entity, an entity with foreign op­er­a­tions (such as a parent with foreign sub­sidiaries), or a foreign operation (such as a foreign sub­sidiary or branch).
1. the reporting entity de­ter­mines its func­tional currency
2. the entity trans­lates all foreign currency items into its func­tional currency
3. the entity reports the effects of such trans­la­tion in ac­cor­dance with para­graphs 20-37 [reporting foreign currency trans­ac­tions in the func­tional currency] and 50 [reporting the tax effects of exchange dif­fer­ences].
Foreign currency trans­ac­tions
A foreign currency trans­ac­tion should be recorded initially at the rate of exchange at the date of the trans­ac­tion (use of averages is permitted if they are a rea­son­able ap­prox­i­ma­tion of actual). [IAS 21.21-22]
At each sub­se­quent balance sheet date: [IAS 21.23]
foreign currency monetary amounts should be reported using the closing rate
non-mon­e­tary items carried at his­tor­i­cal cost should be reported using the exchange rate at the date of the trans­ac­tion
non-mon­e­tary items carried at fair value should be reported at the rate that existed when the fair values were de­ter­mined
Exchange dif­fer­ences arising when monetary items are settled or when monetary items are trans­lated at rates different from those at which they were trans­lated when initially recog­nised or in previous financial state­ments are reported in profit or loss in the period, with one exception. [IAS 21.28] The exception is that exchange dif­fer­ences arising on monetary items that form part of the reporting entity's net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation are recog­nised, in the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments that include the foreign operation, in other com­pre­hen­sive income; they will be recog­nised in profit or loss on disposal of the net in­vest­ment. [IAS 21.32]
As regards a monetary item that forms part of an entity's in­vest­ment in a foreign operation, the accounting treatment in con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments should not be dependent on the currency of the monetary item. [IAS 21.33] Also, the accounting should not depend on which entity within the group conducts a trans­ac­tion with the foreign operation. [IAS 21.15A] If a gain or loss on a non-mon­e­tary item is recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income (for example, a property reval­u­a­tion under IAS 16), any foreign exchange component of that gain or loss is also recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income. [IAS 21.30]
Trans­la­tion from the func­tional currency to the pre­sen­ta­tion currency
The results and financial position of an entity whose func­tional currency is not the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy are trans­lated into a different pre­sen­ta­tion currency using the following pro­ce­dures: [IAS 21.39]
assets and li­a­bil­i­ties for each balance sheet presented (including com­par­a­tives) are trans­lated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet. This would include any goodwill arising on the ac­qui­si­tion of a foreign operation and any fair value ad­just­ments to the carrying amounts of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties arising on the ac­qui­si­tion of that foreign operation are treated as part of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of the foreign operation [IAS 21.47];
income and expenses for each income statement (including com­par­a­tives) are trans­lated at exchange rates at the dates of the trans­ac­tions; and
all resulting exchange dif­fer­ences are recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income.
Special rules apply for trans­lat­ing the results and financial position of an entity whose func­tional currency is the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy into a different pre­sen­ta­tion currency. [IAS 21.42-43]
Where the foreign entity reports in the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy, the financial state­ments of the foreign entity should be restated as required by IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies, before trans­la­tion into the reporting currency. [IAS 21.36]
The re­quire­ments of IAS 21 regarding trans­ac­tions and trans­la­tion of financial state­ments should be strictly applied in the changeover of the national cur­ren­cies of par­tic­i­pat­ing Member States of the European Union to the Euro – monetary assets and li­a­bil­i­ties should continue to be trans­lated the closing rate, cu­mu­la­tive exchange dif­fer­ences should remain in equity and exchange dif­fer­ences resulting from the trans­la­tion of li­a­bil­i­ties de­nom­i­nated in par­tic­i­pat­ing cur­ren­cies should not be included in the carrying amount of related assets. [SIC-7]
Disposal of a foreign operation
When a foreign operation is disposed of, the cu­mu­la­tive amount of the exchange dif­fer­ences recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income and ac­cu­mu­lated in the separate component of equity relating to that foreign operation shall be recog­nised in profit or loss when the gain or loss on disposal is recog­nised. [IAS 21.48]
Tax effects of exchange dif­fer­ences
These must be accounted for using IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Dis­clo­sure
The amount of exchange dif­fer­ences recog­nised in profit or loss (excluding dif­fer­ences arising on financial in­stru­ments measured at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39) [IAS 21.52(a)]
Net exchange dif­fer­ences recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income and ac­cu­mu­lated in a separate component of equity, and a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the amount of such exchange dif­fer­ences at the beginning and end of the period [IAS 21.52(b)]
When the pre­sen­ta­tion currency is different from the func­tional currency, disclose that fact together with the func­tional currency and the reason for using a different pre­sen­ta­tion currency [IAS 21.53]
A change in the func­tional currency of either the reporting entity or a sig­nif­i­cant foreign operation and the reason therefor [IAS 21.54]
When an entity presents its financial state­ments in a currency that is different from its func­tional currency, it may describe those financial state­ments as complying with IFRS only if they comply with all the re­quire­ments of each ap­plic­a­ble Standard (including IAS 21) and each ap­plic­a­ble In­ter­pre­ta­tion. [IAS 21.55]
Con­ve­nience trans­la­tions
Sometimes, an entity displays its financial state­ments or other financial in­for­ma­tion in a currency that is different from either its func­tional currency or its pre­sen­ta­tion currency simply by trans­lat­ing all amounts at end-of-pe­riod exchange rates. This is sometimes called a con­ve­nience trans­la­tion. A result of making a con­ve­nience trans­la­tion is that the resulting financial in­for­ma­tion does not comply with all IFRS, par­tic­u­larly IAS 21. In this case, the following dis­clo­sures are required: [IAS 21.57]
Clearly identify the in­for­ma­tion as sup­ple­men­tary in­for­ma­tion to dis­tin­guish it from the in­for­ma­tion that complies with IFRS
Disclose the currency in which the sup­ple­men­tary in­for­ma­tion is displayed
Disclose the entity's func­tional currency and the method of trans­la­tion used to determine the sup­ple­men­tary in­for­ma­tion
IAS 22 — Business Combinations (Superseded)
Quick Article Links
History of IAS 22
September 1981 Exposure Draft E22 Accounting for Business Com­bi­na­tions
November 1983 IAS 22 Accounting for Business Com­bi­na­tions
1 January 1985 Effective date of IAS 22 (1983)
June 1992 Exposure Draft E54 Business Com­bi­na­tions
December 1993 IAS 22 (1993), Business Com­bi­na­tions (revised as part of the 'Com­pa­ra­bil­ity of Financial State­ments' project)
1 January 1995 Effective date of IAS 22 (1993)
August 1997 Exposure Draft E61 Business Com­bi­na­tions
September 1998 IAS 22 (1998) Business Com­bi­na­tions
1 July 1999 Effective date of IAS 22 (1998) Business Com­bi­na­tions
31 March 2004 IAS 22 su­per­seded by IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions (2004), effective for business com­bi­na­tions for which the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
SIC-9 Business Com­bi­na­tions – Clas­si­fi­ca­tion either as Ac­qui­si­tions or Unitings of Interests. Su­per­seded by IFRS 3.
SIC-22 Business Com­bi­na­tions – Sub­se­quent Ad­just­ment of Fair Values and Goodwill Initially Reported. Su­per­seded by IFRS 3.
SIC-28 Business Com­bi­na­tions – 'Date of Exchange' and Fair Value of Equity In­stru­ments. Su­per­seded by IFRS 3.
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Summary of IAS 22
Objective of IAS 22
The objective of IAS 22 (Revised 1993) is to prescribe the accounting treatment for business com­bi­na­tions. The Standard covers both an ac­qui­si­tion of one en­ter­prise by another (an ac­qui­si­tion) and also the rare situation where an acquirer cannot be iden­ti­fied (a uniting of interests).
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 22.8]
Business com­bi­na­tion: Combining two separate en­ter­prises into a single economic entity as a result of one en­ter­prise uniting with or obtaining control over the net assets and op­er­a­tions of another en­ter­prise. The com­bi­na­tion can result in a single legal entity or two separate legal entities.
Ac­qui­si­tion: A business com­bi­na­tion in which one of the en­ter­prises, the acquirer, obtains control over the net assets and op­er­a­tions of another en­ter­prise, the acquiree, in exchange for the transfer of assets, in­cur­rence of a liability or issue of equity.
Uniting of interests: A business com­bi­na­tion in which the share­hold­ers of the combining en­ter­prises combine control over the whole, or ef­fec­tively the whole, of their net assets and op­er­a­tions to achieve a con­tin­u­ing mutual sharing in the risks and benefits attaching to the combined entity such that neither party can be iden­ti­fied as the acquirer. Also called a pooling of interests.
Control: The power to govern the financial and operating policies of an en­ter­prise so as to obtain benefits from its ac­tiv­i­ties. If one en­ter­prise controls another, the con­trol­ling en­ter­prise is called the parent and the con­trolled en­ter­prise is called the sub­sidiary.
Dis­tin­guish­ing between ac­qui­si­tions and unitings of interests
Under IAS 22, "virtually all" business com­bi­na­tions are ac­qui­si­tions. [IAS 22.10]
In­di­ca­tions of an ac­qui­si­tion are: [IAS 22.10]
One en­ter­prise acquires more than one half of the voting rights of the other combining en­ter­prise.
One en­ter­prise has the power over more than one half of the voting rights of the other en­ter­prise as a result of an agreement with other investors.
One en­ter­prise has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the other en­ter­prise as a result of a statute.
One en­ter­prise has the power to appoint or remove the majority of the members of the board of directors or equiv­a­lent governing body of the other en­ter­prise.
One en­ter­prise has power to cast the majority of votes at meetings of the board of directors of the other en­ter­prise.
SIC-9 explains that the over­rid­ing criterion to dis­tin­guish an ac­qui­si­tion from a uniting of interests is whether an acquirer can be iden­ti­fied, that is to day, whether the share­hold­ers of one of the combining en­ter­prises obtain control over the combined en­ter­prise.
In an ac­qui­si­tion, therefore, the acquiring company must be iden­ti­fied. Usually, that is evident. If it is not evident, IAS 22.11 provides some guidance:
The fair value of one of the combining en­ter­prises is sig­nif­i­cantly more than that of the other.
In an exchange of voting common shares for cash, the en­ter­prise paying the cash is the acquirer.
After the business com­bi­na­tion, the man­age­ment of one en­ter­prise dominates the selection of the man­age­ment team of the combined en­ter­prise.
In­di­ca­tions of a uniting of interests are: [IAS 22.13]
An acquirer cannot be iden­ti­fied.
The share­hold­ers of both combining en­ter­prises share control over the combined en­ter­prise sub­stan­tially equally.
The man­age­ments of both of the combining en­ter­prises share in the man­age­ment of the combined entity.
A business com­bi­na­tion should be clas­si­fied as an ac­qui­si­tion unless the all of the following three char­ac­ter­is­tics are present. Even if all three are present, the com­bi­na­tion should be presented as a uniting of interests only if the en­ter­prise can demon­strate that an acquirer cannot be iden­ti­fied. [IAS 22.15]
The sub­stan­tial majority of the voting common shares of the combining en­ter­prises are exchanged or pooled.
The fair value of one en­ter­prise is not sig­nif­i­cantly different from that of the other en­ter­prise.
Share­hold­ers of each en­ter­prise maintain sub­stan­tially the same voting rights and interests in the combined entity, relative to each other, after the com­bi­na­tion as before.
The following suggest that a business com­bi­na­tion is not a uniting of interests: [IAS 22.16]
Financial arrange­ments provide a relative advantage to one group of share­hold­ers.
One party's share of the equity in the combined entity depends on the per­for­mance, sub­se­quent to the business com­bi­na­tion, of the business which it pre­vi­ously con­trolled.
Unitings of interests – accounting pro­ce­dures
A uniting of interests should be accounted for using the pooling of interests method. [IAS 22.77] Under this method:
Financial statement items of uniting entities should be combined, in both the current and prior periods, as if they had been united from the beginning of the earliest period presented. [IAS 22.78]
Any dif­fer­ence between the amount recorded as share capital issued plus any ad­di­tional con­sid­er­a­tion in the form of cash or other assets and the amount recorded for the share capital acquired should be adjusted against equity. [IAS 22.79]
The costs of the com­bi­na­tion should be expensed when incurred. [IAS 22.82]
Ac­qui­si­tions – accounting pro­ce­dures
An ac­qui­si­tion should be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Under this method: [IAS 22.19]
The income statement should in­cor­po­rate the results of the acquiree from the date of ac­qui­si­tion; and
The balance sheet should include the iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of the acquiree and any goodwill or negative goodwill arising.
Date of ac­qui­si­tion
The date of ac­qui­si­tion is the date on which control of the net assets and op­er­a­tions of the acquiree is ef­fec­tively trans­ferred to the acquirer. Goodwill is the dif­fer­ence between the cost of the ac­qui­si­tion and the acquiring en­ter­prise's share of the fair values of the iden­ti­fi­able assets acquired less li­a­bil­i­ties assumed. [IAS 22.20]
Cost of ac­qui­si­tion
The cost of the ac­qui­si­tion is the amount of cash paid and the fair value of the other con­sid­er­a­tion given by the acquirer, plus any costs directly at­trib­ut­able to the ac­qui­si­tion. Con­tin­gent con­sid­er­a­tion should be included in the cost of the ac­qui­si­tion at the date of the ac­qui­si­tion if payment of the amount is probable and it can be measured reliably. The cost of ac­qui­si­tion should be adjusted when a relevant con­tin­gency is resolved. When set­tle­ment of the con­sid­er­a­tion is deferred, the cost is the present value of such con­sid­er­a­tion and not the nominal amount. [IAS 22.21]
Iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties
The iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties acquired that are recog­nised should be those of the acquiree that existed at the date of ac­qui­si­tion (some of which may not have been recog­nised by the acquiree), together with any permitted pro­vi­sions for re­struc­tur­ing costs (see below). They should be recog­nised sep­a­rately if it is probable that any as­so­ci­ated future economic benefits will flow to or from the acquirer, and their cost/fair value can be measured reliably. Other than permitted pro­vi­sions for re­struc­tur­ing costs (see below), li­a­bil­i­ties should not be recog­nised at the date of ac­qui­si­tion if they result from either:
the acquirer's in­ten­tions or actions; or
future losses or other costs expected to be incurred an a result of the ac­qui­si­tion.
Re­struc­tur­ing pro­vi­sions
Li­a­bil­i­ties should not be recog­nised at the date of ac­qui­si­tion based on the acquirer's stated in­ten­tions. Li­a­bil­i­ties should also not be recog­nised for future losses or other costs expected to be incurred as a result of the ac­qui­si­tion, whether they relate to the acquirer or the acquiree. [IAS 22.29]
Re­struc­tur­ing pro­vi­sions are recog­nised at ac­qui­si­tion only if the re­struc­tur­ing is an integral part of the acquirer's plan for the ac­qui­si­tion and, among other things, the main features of the re­struc­tur­ing plan were announced at, or before, the date of ac­qui­si­tion. The re­struc­tur­ing must involve ter­mi­nat­ing or reducing the acquired company's ac­tiv­i­ties. Fur­ther­more, even if the main features of a re­struc­tur­ing plan were announced prior to the ac­qui­si­tion, a provision for the re­struc­tur­ing sill should not be accrued unless, by the earlier of three months after the date of ac­qui­si­tion and the date when the annual financial state­ments are au­tho­rised for issue, the re­struc­tur­ing plan has been further developed into a detailed formal plan (specifics set out in IAS 22.31].
Measuring acquired assets and li­a­bil­i­ties
In­di­vid­ual assets and li­a­bil­i­ties should be recog­nised sep­a­rately as at the date of ac­qui­si­tion when it is probable that any as­so­ci­ated future economic benefits will flow to or from the acquirer, and their cost/fair value can be measured reliably. [IAS 22.26]
IAS 22 provides for benchmark and an allowed al­ter­na­tive treat­ments for measuring the acquired assets and li­a­bil­i­ties:
Under the benchmark treatment, the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties are measured at the aggregate of the fair value of the iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties acquired to the extent of the acquirer's interest obtained, and the minority's pro­por­tion of the pre-ac­qui­si­tion carrying amounts of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties. [IAS 22.32]
Under the allowed al­ter­na­tive treatment, the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties should be measured at their fair values as at the date of ac­qui­si­tion with the minority's interest being stated at its pro­por­tion of the fair value of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties. [IAS 22.34]
The fair values of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties should be de­ter­mined by reference to their intended use by the acquirer. Guide­lines are provided for the de­ter­min­ing fair values for specific cat­e­gories of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties. When an asset or business segment of the acquiree is to be disposed of, this is taken into con­sid­er­a­tion in de­ter­min­ing fair value. [IAS 22.39]
Step ac­qui­si­tions (suc­ces­sive share purchases)
Where the ac­qui­si­tion is achieved by suc­ces­sive share purchases, each sig­nif­i­cant trans­ac­tion is treated sep­a­rately for the purpose of de­ter­min­ing the fair values of the assets/li­a­bil­i­ties acquired and for de­ter­min­ing the amount of goodwill arising on that trans­ac­tion – comparing each in­di­vid­ual in­vest­ment with the per­cent­age interest in the fair values of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties acquired at each sig­nif­i­cant step. If all of the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties are restated to fair values at the time of each purchase, ad­just­ments relating to the pre­vi­ously held interests are accounted for as reval­u­a­tions. [IAS 22.36]
Sub­se­quent ad­just­ments to original mea­sure­ments of acquired assets and li­a­bil­i­ties
The carrying amounts of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties should be adjusted when ad­di­tional evidence becomes available to assist with the es­ti­ma­tion of the fair value of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties at the date of ac­qui­si­tion. Goodwill should also be adjusted if the ad­just­ment is made by the end of the first annual accounting period com­menc­ing after the ac­qui­si­tion (providing that it is probable that the amount of the ad­just­ment will be recovered from the expected future economic benefits). Otherwise, the ad­just­ment should be treated as income or expense. [IAS 22.68] Further guidance is provided in SIC-22.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the ac­qui­si­tion should be recog­nised as an asset and amortised over its useful life. There is a re­but­table pre­sump­tion that the useful life of goodwill will exceed 20 years. [IAS 22.44] IAS 22 indicates that the 20-year maximum pre­sump­tion can be overcome "in rare cases" — for instance if the goodwill is so clearly related to an iden­ti­fi­able asset or group of iden­ti­fi­able assets that it can rea­son­ably be expected to provide benefits over the entire life of those related assets. Amor­ti­sa­tion will normally be on a straight-line basis. [IAS 22.50]
Goodwill is subject to the general im­pair­ment re­quire­ments of IAS 36. [IAS 22.55] If the amor­ti­sa­tion period exceeds 20 years, re­cov­er­able amount must be cal­cu­lated annually, even if there is no in­di­ca­tion that it is impaired. [IAS 22.56] Non-amor­ti­sa­tion of goodwill based on an argument that it has an infinite life is not permitted by IAS 22.
Negative goodwill
Negative goodwill must always be measured and initially recog­nised as the full dif­fer­ence between the acquirer's interest in the fair values of the iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties acquired less the cost of ac­qui­si­tion. [IAS 22.59]
To the extent that it relates to expected future losses and expenses that are iden­ti­fied in the acquirer's ac­qui­si­tion plan, the negative goodwill is recog­nised as income when the future losses and expenses are recog­nised. [IAS 22.61]
An excess of negative goodwill to the extent of the fair values of acquired iden­ti­fi­able non­mon­e­tary assets is recog­nised in income over the average live of those non­mon­e­tary assets. [IAS 22.62(a)]
Any remaining excess is recog­nised as income im­me­di­ately. [IAS 22.62(b)]
Negative goodwill is presented as a deduction from the assets of the en­ter­prise, in the same balance sheet clas­si­fi­ca­tion as (positive) goodwill. [IAS 22.64]
Deferred income taxes
In both ac­qui­si­tions and uniting of interests, sometimes the accounting treatment may differ from mea­sure­ments under national income tax laws. Any resulting deferred tax li­a­bil­i­ties and deferred tax assets are recog­nised under IAS 12 Income Taxes. [IAS 22.84]
Dis­clo­sure
These dis­clo­sures apply to all business com­bi­na­tions [IAS 22.86]
Names and de­scrip­tions of the combining en­ter­prises.
Method of accounting for the com­bi­na­tion.
Effective date of the merger.
Plans to dispose of a portion of the combined en­ter­prise
These dis­clo­sures apply to ac­qui­si­tions [IAS 22.87-88]
Per­cent­age of voting shares acquired. [IAS 22.87]
Cost of ac­qui­si­tion, including a de­scrip­tion of the purchase con­sid­er­a­tion paid or con­tin­gently payable. [IAS 22.87]
Amor­ti­sa­tion period(s) for goodwill and, if over 20 years or non-straight-line, the jus­ti­fi­ca­tion. [IAS 22.88]
Line item(s) of the income statement in which the amor­ti­sa­tion of goodwill is included [IAS 22.88]
A rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the carrying amount of goodwill at the beginning and end of the period [IAS 22.88]
Com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion is not required.
Special dis­clo­sures in negative goodwill sit­u­a­tions. [IAS 22.91]
Problems in de­ter­min­ing fair values of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties [IAS 22.93]
These dis­clo­sures apply to unitings of interest [IAS 22.94]
In­for­ma­tion about type and number of shares issued
Amounts of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties con­tributed by each en­ter­prise; and
Sales revenue, other operating revenues, ex­tra­or­di­nary items and the net profit or loss of each en­ter­prise prior to the date of the com­bi­na­tion that are included in the net profit or loss shown by the combined en­ter­prise's financial state­ments.
IAS 23 — Borrowing Costs
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs requires that borrowing costs directly at­trib­ut­able to the ac­qui­si­tion, con­struc­tion or pro­duc­tion of a 'qual­i­fy­ing asset' (one that nec­es­sar­ily takes a sub­stan­tial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale) are included in the cost of the asset. Other borrowing costs are recog­nised as an expense.
IAS 23 was reissued in March 2007 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
History of IAS 23
November 1982 Exposure Draft E24 Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of Borrowing Costs
March 1984 IAS 23 Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of Borrowing Costs
1 January 1986 Effective date of IAS 23 (1984)
August 1991 Exposure Draft E39 Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of Borrowing Costs
December 1993 IAS 23 (1993) Borrowing Costs (revised as part of the 'Com­pa­ra­bil­ity of Financial State­ments' project)
1 January 1995 Effective date of IAS 23 (1993) Borrowing Costs
25 May 2006 Exposure Draft of proposed amend­ments to IAS 23
29 March 2007 IASB amends IAS 23 to require cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of borrowing costs.
22 May 2008 IAS 23 amended for 'Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 for com­po­nents of borrowing costs
1 January 2009 Effective date of March 2007 and May 2008 amend­ments to IAS 23
12 December 2017 IAS 23 amended for 'Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2015–2017'.
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
SIC-2 Con­sis­tency – Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of Borrowing Costs. SIC-2 was su­per­seded by and in­cor­po­rated into IAS 8 in December 2003.
Summary of IAS 23
Objective of IAS 23
The objective of IAS 23 is to prescribe the accounting treatment for borrowing costs. Borrowing costs include interest on bank over­drafts and bor­row­ings, finance charges on finance leases and exchange dif­fer­ences on foreign currency bor­row­ings where they are regarded as an ad­just­ment to interest costs.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
Borrowing cost may include: [IAS 23.6]
interest expense cal­cu­lated by the effective interest method under IAS 39,
finance charges in respect of finance leases recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with IAS 17 Leases, and
exchange dif­fer­ences arising from foreign currency bor­row­ings to the extent that they are regarded as an ad­just­ment to interest costs
This standard does not deal with the actual or imputed cost of equity, including any preferred capital not clas­si­fied as a liability pursuant to IAS 32. [IAS 23.3]
A qual­i­fy­ing asset is an asset that takes a sub­stan­tial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. [IAS 23.5] That could be property, plant, and equipment and in­vest­ment property during the con­struc­tion period, in­tan­gi­ble assets during the de­vel­op­ment period, or "made-to-or­der" in­ven­to­ries. [IAS 23.6]
Scope of IAS 23
Two types of assets that would otherwise be qual­i­fy­ing assets are excluded from the scope of IAS 23:
qual­i­fy­ing assets measured at fair value, such as bi­o­log­i­cal assets accounted for under IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture
in­ven­to­ries that are man­u­fac­tured, or otherwise produced, in large quan­ti­ties on a repet­i­tive basis and that take a sub­stan­tial period to get ready for sale (for example, maturing whisky)
Accounting treatment
Recog­ni­tion
Borrowing costs that are directly at­trib­ut­able to the ac­qui­si­tion, con­struc­tion or pro­duc­tion of a qual­i­fy­ing asset form part of the cost of that asset and, therefore, should be cap­i­talised. Other borrowing costs are recog­nised as an expense. [IAS 23.8]
Mea­sure­ment
Where funds are borrowed specif­i­cally, costs eligible for cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion are the actual costs incurred less any income earned on the temporary in­vest­ment of such bor­row­ings. [IAS 23.12] Where funds are part of a general pool, the eligible amount is de­ter­mined by applying a cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion rate to the ex­pen­di­ture on that asset. The cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion rate will be the weighted average of the borrowing costs ap­plic­a­ble to the general pool. [IAS 23.14]
Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion should commence when ex­pen­di­tures are being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and ac­tiv­i­ties that are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress (may include some ac­tiv­i­ties prior to com­mence­ment of physical pro­duc­tion). [IAS 23.17-18] Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion should be suspended during periods in which active de­vel­op­ment is in­ter­rupted. [IAS 23.20] Cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion should cease when sub­stan­tially all of the ac­tiv­i­ties necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are complete. [IAS 23.22] If only minor mod­i­fi­ca­tions are out­stand­ing, this indicates that sub­stan­tially all of the ac­tiv­i­ties are complete. [IAS 23.23]
Where con­struc­tion is completed in stages, which can be used while con­struc­tion of the other parts continues, cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion of at­trib­ut­able borrowing costs should cease when sub­stan­tially all of the ac­tiv­i­ties necessary to prepare that part for its intended use or sale are complete. [IAS 23.24]
Dis­clo­sure [IAS 23.26]
amount of borrowing cost cap­i­talised during the period
cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion rate used
IAS 24 — Related Party Disclosures
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 24 Related Party Dis­clo­sures requires dis­clo­sures about trans­ac­tions and out­stand­ing balances with an entity's related parties. The standard defines various classes of entities and people as related parties and sets out the dis­clo­sures required in respect of those parties, including the com­pen­sa­tion of key man­age­ment personnel.
IAS 24 was reissued in November 2009 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
History of IAS 24
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
March 1983 Exposure Draft E25 Dis­clo­sure of Related Party Trans­ac­tions
July 1984 IAS 24 Related Party Dis­clo­sures issued Effective 1 January 1986
1994 IAS 24 was re­for­mat­ted
18 December 2003 IAS 24 Related Party Dis­clo­sures Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
22 February 2007 Exposure Draft State-con­trolled Entities and the De­f­i­n­i­tion of a Related Party published Comment deadline 25 May 2007
11 December 2008 Exposure Draft Re­la­tion­ships with the State (Proposed amend­ments to IAS 24) published Comment deadline 13 March 2009
4 November 2009 IAS 24 Related Party Dis­clo­sures issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (entities providing key man­age­ment personnel services) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Summary of IAS 24
Objective of IAS 24
The objective of IAS 24 is to ensure that an entity's financial state­ments contain the dis­clo­sures necessary to draw attention to the pos­si­bil­ity that its financial position and profit or loss may have been affected by the existence of related parties and by trans­ac­tions and out­stand­ing balances with such parties.
Who are related parties?
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that is preparing its financial state­ments (referred to as the 'reporting entity') [IAS 24.9].
(a) A person or a close member of that person's family is related to a reporting entity if that person:
(i) has control or joint control over the reporting entity;
(ii) has sig­nif­i­cant influence over the reporting entity; or
(iii) is a member of the key man­age­ment personnel of the reporting entity or of a parent of the reporting entity.
(b) An entity is related to a reporting entity if any of the following con­di­tions applies:
(i) The entity and the reporting entity are members of the same group (which means that each parent, sub­sidiary and fellow sub­sidiary is related to the others).
(ii) One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a group of which the other entity is a member).
(iii) Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
(iv) One entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the third entity.
(v) The entity is a post-em­ploy­ment defined benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the reporting entity or an entity related to the reporting entity. If the reporting entity is itself such a plan, the spon­sor­ing employers are also related to the reporting entity.
(vi) The entity is con­trolled or jointly con­trolled by a person iden­ti­fied in (a).
(vii) A person iden­ti­fied in (a)(i) has sig­nif­i­cant influence over the entity or is a member of the key man­age­ment personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the entity).
(viii) The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key man­age­ment personnel services to the reporting entity or to the parent of the reporting entity*.
* Re­quire­ment added by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
The following are deemed not to be related: [IAS 24.11]
two entities simply because they have a director or key manager in common
two venturers who share joint control over a joint venture
providers of finance, trade unions, public utilities, and de­part­ments and agencies of a gov­ern­ment that does not control, jointly control or sig­nif­i­cantly influence the reporting entity, simply by virtue of their normal dealings with an entity (even though they may affect the freedom of action of an entity or par­tic­i­pate in its de­ci­sion-mak­ing process)
a single customer, supplier, fran­chiser, dis­trib­u­tor, or general agent with whom an entity transacts a sig­nif­i­cant volume of business merely by virtue of the resulting economic de­pen­dence
What are related party trans­ac­tions?
A related party trans­ac­tion is a transfer of resources, services, or oblig­a­tions between related parties, re­gard­less of whether a price is charged. [IAS 24.9]
Dis­clo­sure
Re­la­tion­ships between parents and sub­sidiaries. Re­gard­less of whether there have been trans­ac­tions between a parent and a sub­sidiary, an entity must disclose the name of its parent and, if different, the ultimate con­trol­ling party. If neither the entity's parent nor the ultimate con­trol­ling party produces financial state­ments available for public use, the name of the next most senior parent that does so must also be disclosed. [IAS 24.16]
Man­age­ment com­pen­sa­tion. Disclose key man­age­ment personnel com­pen­sa­tion in total and for each of the following cat­e­gories: [IAS 24.17]
short-term employee benefits
post-em­ploy­ment benefits
other long-term benefits
ter­mi­na­tion benefits
share-based payment benefits
Key man­age­ment personnel are those persons having authority and re­spon­si­bil­ity for planning, directing, and con­trol­ling the ac­tiv­i­ties of the entity, directly or in­di­rectly, including any directors (whether executive or otherwise) of the entity. [IAS 24.9]
If an entity obtains key man­age­ment personnel services from a man­age­ment entity, the entity is not required to disclose the com­pen­sa­tion paid or payable by the man­age­ment entity to the man­age­ment entity’s employees or directors. Instead the entity discloses the amounts incurred by the entity for the provision of key man­age­ment personnel services that are provided by the separate man­age­ment entity*. [IAS 24.17A, 18A]
* These re­quire­ments were in­tro­duced by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
  Related party trans­ac­tions. If there have been trans­ac­tions between related parties, disclose the nature of the related party re­la­tion­ship as well as in­for­ma­tion about the trans­ac­tions and out­stand­ing balances necessary for an un­der­stand­ing of the potential effect of the re­la­tion­ship on the financial state­ments. These dis­clo­sure would be made sep­a­rately for each category of related parties and would include: [IAS 24.18-19]
the amount of the trans­ac­tions
the amount of out­stand­ing balances, including terms and con­di­tions and guar­an­tees
pro­vi­sions for doubtful debts related to the amount of out­stand­ing balances
expense recog­nised during the period in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from related parties
Examples of the kinds of trans­ac­tions that are disclosed if they are with a related party
purchases or sales of goods
purchases or sales of property and other assets
rendering or receiving of services
leases
transfers of research and de­vel­op­ment
transfers under licence agree­ments
transfers under finance arrange­ments (including loans and equity con­tri­bu­tions in cash or in kind)
provision of guar­an­tees or col­lat­eral
com­mit­ments to do something if a par­tic­u­lar event occurs or does not occur in the future, including executory contracts (recog­nised and un­recog­nised)
set­tle­ment of li­a­bil­i­ties on behalf of the entity or by the entity on behalf of another party
A statement that related party trans­ac­tions were made on terms equiv­a­lent to those that prevail in arm's length trans­ac­tions should be made only if such terms can be sub­stan­ti­ated. [IAS 24.21]
IAS 26 — Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Re­tire­ment Benefit Plans outlines the re­quire­ments for the prepa­ra­tion of financial state­ments of re­tire­ment benefit plans. It outlines the financial state­ments required and discusses the mea­sure­ment of various line items, par­tic­u­larly the actuarial present value of promised re­tire­ment benefits for defined benefit plans.
IAS 26 was issued in January 1987 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 1988.
History of IAS 26
July 1985 Exposure Draft E27 Accounting and Reporting by Re­tire­ment Benefit Plans
January 1987 IAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Re­tire­ment Benefit Plans
1 January 1988 Effective date of IAS 26 (1987)
1994 IAS 26 was re­for­mat­ted
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Summary of IAS 26
Objective of IAS 26
The objective of IAS 26 is to specify mea­sure­ment and dis­clo­sure prin­ci­ples for the reports of re­tire­ment benefit plans. All plans should include in their reports a statement of changes in net assets available for benefits, a summary of sig­nif­i­cant accounting policies and a de­scrip­tion of the plan and the effect of any changes in the plan during the period.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
Re­tire­ment benefit plan: An arrange­ment by which an entity provides benefits (annual income or lump sum) to employees after they terminate from service. [IAS 26.8]
Defined con­tri­bu­tion plan: A re­tire­ment benefit plan by which benefits to employees are based on the amount of funds con­tributed to the plan plus in­vest­ment earnings thereon. [IAS 26.8]
Defined benefit plan: A re­tire­ment benefit plan by which employees receive benefits based on a formula usually linked to employee earnings. [IAS 26.8]
Defined con­tri­bu­tion plans
The report of a defined con­tri­bu­tion plan should contain a statement of net assets available for benefits and a de­scrip­tion of the funding policy. [IAS 26.13]
Defined benefit plans
The report of a defined benefit plan should contain either: [IAS 26.17]
a statement that shows the net assets available for benefits, the actuarial present value of promised re­tire­ment benefits (dis­tin­guish­ing between vested benefits and non-vested benefits) and the resulting excess or deficit; or
a statement of net assets available for benefits, including either a note dis­clos­ing the actuarial present value of promised re­tire­ment benefits (dis­tin­guish­ing between vested benefits and non-vested benefits) or a reference to this in­for­ma­tion in an ac­com­pa­ny­ing actuarial report.
If an actuarial valuation has not been prepared at the date of the report of a defined benefit plan, the most recent valuation should be used as a base and the date of the valuation disclosed. The actuarial present value of promised re­tire­ment benefits should be based on the benefits promised under the terms of the plan on service rendered to date, using either current salary levels or projected salary levels, with dis­clo­sure of the basis used. The effect of any changes in actuarial as­sump­tions that have had a sig­nif­i­cant effect on the actuarial present value of promised re­tire­ment benefits should also be disclosed. [IAS 26.18]
The report should explain the re­la­tion­ship between the actuarial present value of promised re­tire­ment benefits and the net assets available for benefits, and the policy for the funding of promised benefits. [IAS 26.19]
Re­tire­ment benefit plan in­vest­ments should be carried at fair value. For mar­ketable se­cu­ri­ties, fair value means market value. If fair values cannot be estimated for certain re­tire­ment benefit plan in­vest­ments, dis­clo­sure should be made of the reason why fair value is not used. [IAS 26.32]
Dis­clo­sure
Statement of net assets available for benefit, showing: [IAS 26.35(a)]
assets at the end of the period
basis of valuation
details of any single in­vest­ment exceeding 5% of net assets or 5% of any category of in­vest­ment
details of in­vest­ment in the employer
li­a­bil­i­ties other than the actuarial present value of plan benefits
Statement of changes in net assets available for benefits, showing: [IAS 26.35(b)]
employer con­tri­bu­tions
employee con­tri­bu­tions
in­vest­ment income
other income
benefits paid
ad­min­is­tra­tive expenses
other expenses
income taxes
profit or loss on disposal of in­vest­ments
changes in fair value of in­vest­ments
transfers to/from other plans
De­scrip­tion of funding policy [IAS 26.35(c)]
Other details about the plan [IAS 26.36]
Summary of sig­nif­i­cant accounting policies [IAS 26.34(b)]
De­scrip­tion of the plan and of the effect of any changes in the plan during the period [IAS 26.34(c)]
Dis­clo­sures for defined benefit plans: [IAS 26.35(d) and (e)]
actuarial present value of promised benefit oblig­a­tions
de­scrip­tion of actuarial as­sump­tions
de­scrip­tion of the method used to calculate the actuarial present value of promised benefit oblig­a­tions
IAS 27 — Separate Financial Statements (2011)
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (as amended in 2011) outlines the accounting and dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments for 'separate financial state­ments', which are financial state­ments prepared by a parent, or an investor in a joint venture or associate, where those in­vest­ments are accounted for either at cost or in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment or IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments. The standard also outlines the accounting re­quire­ments for dividends and contains numerous dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments.
IAS 27 was reissued in May 2011 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, su­per­sed­ing IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments from that date.
History of IAS 27 (as amended in 2011)
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
September 1987 Exposure Draft E30 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments and Accounting for In­vest­ments in Sub­sidiaries
April 1989 IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments and Accounting for In­vest­ments in Sub­sidiaries issued Effective 1 January 1990
1994 IAS 27 re­for­mat­ted
December 1998 Amended by IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment Effective 1 January 2001
18 December 2003 IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
25 June 2005 Exposure Draft of Proposed Amend­ments to IFRS 3 and IAS 27
10 January 2008 IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments (2008) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
22 May 2008 Amended by Cost of a Sub­sidiary in the Separate Financial State­ments of a Parent on First-time Adoption of IFRSs Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
22 May 2008 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs
(in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries held for sale) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
6 May 2010 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010
(tran­si­tional re­quire­ments) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010
12 May 2011 Reissued as IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (as amended in 2011). Con­sol­i­da­tion re­quire­ments pre­vi­ously forming part of IAS 27 (2008) have been revised and are now contained in IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
31 October 2012 Amended by In­vest­ment Entities (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) (project history) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
12 August 2014 Amended by Equity Method in Separate Financial State­ments (Amend­ments to IAS 27) (project history) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier ap­pli­ca­tion permitted
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
IFRS 13 — Unit of account
Research project — Common control trans­ac­tions
Summary of IAS 27 (as amended in 2011)
The summary below applies to IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments, issued in May 2011 and applying to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. For earlier reporting periods, refer to our summary of IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments.
Ob­jec­tives of IAS 27
IAS 27 has the objective of setting standards to be applied in accounting for in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly ventures, and as­so­ci­ates when an entity elects, or is required by local reg­u­la­tions, to present separate (non-con­sol­i­dated) financial state­ments.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IAS 27(2011).4]
Con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments Financial state­ments of a group in which the assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent and its sub­sidiaries are presented as those of a single economic entity
Separate financial state­ments Financial state­ments presented by a parent (i.e. an investor with control of a sub­sidiary), an investor with joint control of, or sig­nif­i­cant influence over, an investee, in which the in­vest­ments are accounted for at cost or in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments
Prepa­ra­tion of separate financial state­ments
Re­quire­ment for separate financial state­ments
IAS 27 does not mandate which entities produce separate financial state­ments available for public use. It applies when an entity prepares separate financial state­ments that comply with International Financial Reporting Standards. [IAS 27(2011).3]
Financial state­ments in which the equity method is applied are not separate financial state­ments. Similarly, the financial state­ments of an entity that does not have a sub­sidiary, associate or joint venturer's interest in a joint venture are not separate financial state­ments. [IAS 27(2011).7]
An in­vest­ment entity that is required, through­out the current period and all com­par­a­tive periods presented, to apply the exception to con­sol­i­da­tion for all of its sub­sidiaries in ac­cor­dance with of IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments presents separate financial state­ments as its only financial state­ments. [IAS 27(2011).8A]
[Note: The in­vest­ment entity con­sol­i­da­tion exemption was in­tro­duced into IFRS 10 by In­vest­ment Entities, issued on 31 October 2012 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.]
Choice of accounting method
When an entity prepares separate financial state­ments, in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates, and jointly con­trolled entities are accounted for either: [IAS 27(2011).10]
at cost, or
in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (or IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment for entities that have not yet adopted IFRS 9), or
using the equity method as decribed in IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures. [See the amendment in­for­ma­tion below.]
The entity applies the same accounting for each category of in­vest­ments. In­vest­ments that are accounted for at cost and clas­si­fied as held for sale in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions are accounted for in ac­cor­dance with that IFRS. In­vest­ments carried at cost should be measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The mea­sure­ment of in­vest­ments accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 is not changed in such cir­cum­stances.
If an entity elects, in ac­cor­dance with IAS 28 (as amended in 2011), to measure its in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates or joint ventures at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9, it shall also account for those in­vest­ments in the same way in its separate financial state­ments. [IAS 27(2011).11]
In­vest­ment entities
[Note: The in­vest­ment entity con­sol­i­da­tion exemption was in­tro­duced into IFRS 10 by In­vest­ment Entities, issued on 31 October 2012 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.]
If a parent in­vest­ment entity is required, in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 10, to measure its in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 or IAS 39, it is required to also account for its in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary in the same way in its separate financial state­ments. [IAS 27(2011).11A]
When a parent ceases to be an in­vest­ment entity, the entity can account for an in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary at cost (based on fair value at the date of change or status) or in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9.  When an entity becomes an in­vest­ment entity, it accounts for an in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9. [IAS 27(2011).11B]
Recog­ni­tion of dividends
An entity recog­nises a dividend from a sub­sidiary, joint venture or associate in profit or loss in its separate financial state­ments when its right to receive the dividend in es­tab­lished. [IAS 27(2011).12]
(Accounting for dividends where the equity method is applied to in­vest­ments in joint ventures and as­so­ci­ates is specified in IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures.)
Group re­or­gan­i­sa­tions
Specified accounting applies in separate financial state­ments when a parent re­or­gan­ises the structure of its group by es­tab­lish­ing a new entity as its parent in a manner sat­is­fy­ing the following criteria: [IAS 27(2011).13]
the new parent obtains control of the original parent by issuing equity in­stru­ments in exchange for existing equity in­stru­ments of the original parent
the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of the new group and the original group are the same im­me­di­ately before and after the re­or­gan­i­sa­tion, and
the owners of the original parent before the re­or­gan­i­sa­tion have the same absolute and relative interests in the net assets of the original group and the new group im­me­di­ately before and after the re­or­gan­i­sa­tion.
Where these criteria are met, and the new parent accounts for its in­vest­ment in the original parent at cost, the new parent measures the carrying amount of its share of the equity items shown in the separate financial state­ments of the original parent at the date of the re­or­gan­i­sa­tion. [IAS 27(2011).13]
The above re­quire­ments:
apply to the es­tab­lish­ment of an in­ter­me­di­ate parent within a group, as well as es­tab­lish­ment of a new ultimate parent of a group [IAS 27(2011).BC24]
apply to an entity that is not a parent entity and es­tab­lishes a parent in a manner that satisfies the above criteria [IAS 27(2011).14]
apply only where the criteria above are satisfied and do not apply to other types of re­or­gan­i­sa­tions or for common control trans­ac­tions more broadly. [IAS 27(2011).BC27].
Dis­clo­sure
When a parent, in ac­cor­dance with paragraph 4(a) of IFRS 10, elects not to prepare con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments and instead prepares separate financial state­ments, it shall disclose in those separate financial state­ments: [IAS 27(2011).16]
the fact that the financial state­ments are separate financial state­ments; that the exemption from con­sol­i­da­tion has been used; the name and principal place of business (and country of in­cor­po­ra­tion if different) of the entity whose con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments that comply with IFRS have been produced for public use; and the address where those con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments are ob­tain­able,
a list of sig­nif­i­cant in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly con­trolled entities, and as­so­ci­ates, including the name, principal place of business (and country of in­cor­po­ra­tion if different), pro­por­tion of ownership interest and, if different, pro­por­tion of voting rights, and
a de­scrip­tion of the method used to account for the foregoing in­vest­ments.
When an in­vest­ment entity that is a parent prepares separate financial state­ments as its only financial state­ments, it shall disclose that fact. The in­vest­ment entity shall also present the dis­clo­sures relating to in­vest­ment entities required by IFRS 12. [IAS 27(2011).16A]
[Note: The in­vest­ment entity con­sol­i­da­tion exemption was in­tro­duced into IFRS 10 by In­vest­ment Entities, issued on 31 October 2012 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.]
When a parent (other than a parent covered by the above cir­cum­stances) or an investor with joint control of, or sig­nif­i­cant influence over, an investee prepares separate financial state­ments, the parent or investor shall identify the financial state­ments prepared in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 10, IFRS 11 or IAS 28 (as amended in 2011) to which they relate. The parent or investor shall also disclose in its separate financial state­ments: [IAS 27(2011).17]
the fact that the state­ments are separate financial state­ments and the reasons why those state­ments are prepared if not required by law,
a list of sig­nif­i­cant in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly con­trolled entities, and as­so­ci­ates, including the name, principal place of business (and country of in­cor­po­ra­tion if different), pro­por­tion of ownership interest and, if different, pro­por­tion of voting rights, and
a de­scrip­tion of the method used to account for the foregoing in­vest­ments.
Ap­plic­a­bil­ity and early adoption
IAS 27 (as amended in 2011) is ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. [IAS 27(2011).18]
An entity may apply IAS 27 (as amended in 2011) to an earlier accounting period, but if doing so it must disclose the fact that is has early adopted the standard and also apply: [IAS 27(2011).18]
IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments
IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments
IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (as amended in 2011).
The amend­ments to IAS 27 (2011) made by In­vest­ment Entities are ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and special tran­si­tional pro­vi­sions apply.
Equity Method in Separate Financial State­ments (Amend­ments to IAS 27), issued in August 2014, amended para­graphs 4–7, 10, 11B and 12. An entity shall apply those amend­ments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 ret­ro­spec­tively in ac­cor­dance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted. If an entity applies those amend­ments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. [IAS 27(2011).18A-18J].
IAS 27 — Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (2008)
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments outlines when an entity must con­sol­i­date another entity, how to account for a change in ownership interest, how to prepare separate financial state­ments, and related dis­clo­sures. Con­sol­i­da­tion is based on the concept of 'control' and changes in ownership interests while control is main­tained are accounted for as trans­ac­tions between owners as owners in equity.
IAS 27 was reissued in January 2008 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, and is su­per­seded by IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments and IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments with effect from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IAS 27
September 1987 Exposure Draft E30 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments and Accounting for In­vest­ments in Sub­sidiaries
April 1989 IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments and Accounting for In­vest­ments in Sub­sidiaries
1 January 1990 Effective date of IAS 27 (1989)
1994 IAS 27 was re­for­mat­ted
December 1998 IAS 27 was amended by IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment effective 1 January 2001
18 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 27 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 27 (2003)
25 June 2005 Exposure Draft of Proposed Amend­ments to IFRS 3 and IAS 27
10 January 2008 Revised IAS 27 (2008) issued
22 May 2008 IAS 27 amended for Cost of a Sub­sidiary in the Separate Financial State­ments of a Parent on First-time Adoption of IFRSs
22 May 2008 IAS 27 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 relating to mea­sure­ment of in­vest­ments held for sale under IFRS 5 in separate financial state­ments
1 January 2009 Effective date of the two May 2008 amend­ments
1 July 2009 Effective date of IAS 27 (2008). Deloitte has published a Special Edition of our IAS Plus Newslet­ter dealing with the January 2008 revisions to IFRS 3 and IAS 27 (PDF 123k).
6 May 2010 IAS 27 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010
1 July 2010 Effective date of May 2010 amendment to IAS 27
12 May 2011 IAS 27 (2008) is su­per­seded by IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (2011) and IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments effective 1 January 2013
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 17 Dis­tri­b­u­tions of Non-cash Assets to Owners
SIC-12 Con­sol­i­da­tion – Special Purpose Entities
IAS 27 (revised 2003) su­per­sedes SIC-33 Con­sol­i­da­tion and Equity Method – Potential Voting Rights and Al­lo­ca­tion of Ownership Interest
Summary of IAS 27
Ob­jec­tives of IAS 27
IAS 27 has the twin ob­jec­tives of setting standards to be applied:
in the prepa­ra­tion and pre­sen­ta­tion of con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments for a group of entities under the control of a parent; and
in accounting for in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly con­trolled entities, and as­so­ci­ates when an entity elects, or is required by local reg­u­la­tions, to present separate (non-con­sol­i­dated) financial state­ments.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 27.4]
Con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments: the financial state­ments of a group presented as those of a single economic entity.
Sub­sidiary: an entity, including an un­in­cor­po­rated entity such as a part­ner­ship, that is con­trolled by another entity (known as the parent).
Parent: an entity that has one or more sub­sidiaries.
Control: the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its ac­tiv­i­ties.
Iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of sub­sidiaries
Control is presumed when the parent acquires more than half of the voting rights of the entity. Even when more than one half of the voting rights is not acquired, control may be evidenced by power: [IAS 27.13]
over more than one half of the voting rights by virtue of an agreement with other investors, or
to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity under a statute or an agreement; or
to appoint or remove the majority of the members of the board of directors; or
to cast the majority of votes at a meeting of the board of directors.
SIC-12 provides other in­di­ca­tors of control (based on risks and rewards) for Special Purpose Entities (SPEs). SPEs should be con­sol­i­dated where the substance of the re­la­tion­ship indicates that the SPE is con­trolled by the reporting entity. This may arise even where the ac­tiv­i­ties of the SPE are pre­de­ter­mined or where the majority of voting or equity are not held by the reporting entity. [SIC-12]
Pre­sen­ta­tion of con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments
A parent is required to present con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments in which it con­sol­i­dates its in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries [IAS 27.9] – with the following exception:
A parent is not required to (but may) present con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments if and only if all of the following four con­di­tions are met: [IAS 27.10]
the parent is itself a wholly-owned sub­sidiary, or is a par­tially-owned sub­sidiary of another entity and its other owners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to, the parent not pre­sent­ing con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments;
the parent's debt or equity in­stru­ments are not traded in a public market;
the parent did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial state­ments with a se­cu­ri­ties com­mis­sion or other reg­u­la­tory organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of in­stru­ments in a public market; and
the ultimate or any in­ter­me­di­ate parent of the parent produces con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments available for public use that comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The con­sol­i­dated accounts should include all of the parent's sub­sidiaries, both domestic and foreign: [IAS 27.12]
There is no exemption for a sub­sidiary whose business is of a different nature from the parent's.
There is no exemption for a sub­sidiary that operates under severe long-term re­stric­tions impairing the sub­sidiary's ability to transfer funds to the parent. Such an exemption was included in earlier versions of IAS 27, but in revising IAS 27 in December 2003 the IASB concluded that these re­stric­tions, in them­selves, do not preclude control.
There is no exemption for a sub­sidiary that had pre­vi­ously been con­sol­i­dated and that is now being held for sale. However, a sub­sidiary that meets the IFRS 5 criteria as an asset held for sale shall be accounted for under that Standard.
Special purpose entities (SPEs) should be con­sol­i­dated where the substance of the re­la­tion­ship indicates that the SPE is con­trolled by the reporting entity. This may arise even where the ac­tiv­i­ties of the SPE are pre­de­ter­mined or where the majority of voting or equity are not held by the reporting entity. [SIC-12]
Once an in­vest­ment ceases to fall within the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a sub­sidiary, it should be accounted for as an associate under IAS 28, as a joint venture under IAS 31, or as an in­vest­ment under IAS 39, as ap­pro­pri­ate. [IAS 27.31]
Con­sol­i­da­tion pro­ce­dures
In­tra­group balances, trans­ac­tions, income, and expenses should be elim­i­nated in full. In­tra­group losses may indicate that an im­pair­ment loss on the related asset should be recog­nised. [IAS 27.24-25]
The financial state­ments of the parent and its sub­sidiaries used in preparing the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments should all be prepared as of the same reporting date, unless it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble to do so. [IAS 27.26] If it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble a par­tic­u­lar sub­sidiary to prepare its financial state­ments as of the same date as its parent, ad­just­ments must be made for the effects of sig­nif­i­cant trans­ac­tions or events that occur between the dates of the sub­sidiary's and the parent's financial state­ments. And in no case may the dif­fer­ence be more than three months. [IAS 27.27]
Con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments must be prepared using uniform accounting policies for like trans­ac­tions and other events in similar cir­cum­stances. [IAS 27.28]
Minority interests should be presented in the con­sol­i­dated balance sheet within equity, but separate from the parent's share­hold­ers' equity. Minority interests in the profit or loss of the group should also be sep­a­rately disclosed. [IAS 27.33]
Where losses ap­plic­a­ble to the minority exceed the minority interest in the equity of the relevant sub­sidiary, the excess, and any further losses at­trib­ut­able to the minority, are charged to the group unless the minority has a binding oblig­a­tion to, and is able to, make good the losses. Where excess losses have been taken up by the group, if the sub­sidiary in question sub­se­quently reports profits, all such profits are at­trib­uted to the group until the minority's share of losses pre­vi­ously absorbed by the group has been recovered. [IAS 27.35]
Partial disposal of an in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary
The accounting depends on whether control is retained or lost:
Partial disposal of an in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary while control is retained. This is accounted for as an equity trans­ac­tion with owners, and gain or loss is not recog­nised.
Partial disposal of an in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary that results in loss of control. Loss of control triggers re­mea­sure­ment of the residual holding to fair value. Any dif­fer­ence between fair value and carrying amount is a gain or loss on the disposal, recog­nised in profit or loss. There­after, apply IAS 28, IAS 31, or IAS 39, as ap­pro­pri­ate, to the remaining holding.
Acquiring ad­di­tional shares in the sub­sidiary after control is obtained
Acquiring ad­di­tional shares in the sub­sidiary after control was obtained is accounted for as an equity trans­ac­tion with owners (like ac­qui­si­tion of 'treasury shares'). Goodwill is not re­mea­sured.
Separate financial state­ments of the parent or investor in an associate or jointly con­trolled entity
In the parent's/investor's in­di­vid­ual financial state­ments, in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates, and jointly con­trolled entities should be accounted for either: [IAS 27.37]
at cost, or
in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39.
The parent/investor shall apply the same accounting for each category of in­vest­ments. In­vest­ments that are clas­si­fied as held for sale in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5 shall be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with that IFRS. [IAS 27.37] In­vest­ments carried at cost should be measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The mea­sure­ment of in­vest­ments accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39 is not changed in such cir­cum­stances. [IAS 27.38] An entity shall recognise a dividend from a sub­sidiary, jointly con­trolled entity or associate in profit or loss in its separate financial state­ments when its right to receive the dividend is es­tab­lished. [IAS 27.38A]
Dis­clo­sure
Dis­clo­sures required in con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments: [IAS 27.40]
the nature of the re­la­tion­ship between the parent and a sub­sidiary when the parent does not own, directly or in­di­rectly through sub­sidiaries, more than half of the voting power,
the reasons why the ownership, directly or in­di­rectly through sub­sidiaries, of more than half of the voting or potential voting power of an investee does not con­sti­tute control,
the reporting date of the financial state­ments of a sub­sidiary when such financial state­ments are used to prepare con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments and are as of a reporting date or for a period that is different from that of the parent, and the reason for using a different reporting date or period, and
the nature and extent of any sig­nif­i­cant re­stric­tions on the ability of sub­sidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
Dis­clo­sures required in separate financial state­ments that are prepared for a parent that is permitted not to prepare con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments: [IAS 27.41]
the fact that the financial state­ments are separate financial state­ments; that the exemption from con­sol­i­da­tion has been used; the name and country of in­cor­po­ra­tion or residence of the entity whose con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments that comply with IFRS have been produced for public use; and the address where those con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments are ob­tain­able,
a list of sig­nif­i­cant in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly con­trolled entities, and as­so­ci­ates, including the name, country of in­cor­po­ra­tion or residence, pro­por­tion of ownership interest and, if different, pro­por­tion of voting power held, and
a de­scrip­tion of the method used to account for the foregoing in­vest­ments.
Dis­clo­sures required in the separate financial state­ments of a parent, investor in a jointly con­trolled entity, or investor in an associate: [IAS 27.42]
the fact that the state­ments are separate financial state­ments and the reasons why those state­ments are prepared if not required by law,
a list of sig­nif­i­cant in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, jointly con­trolled entities, and as­so­ci­ates, including the name, country of in­cor­po­ra­tion or residence, pro­por­tion of ownership interest and, if different, pro­por­tion of voting power held, and
a de­scrip­tion of the method used to account for the foregoing in­vest­ments.
IAS 28 — Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (as amended in 2011) outlines how to apply, with certain limited ex­cep­tions, the equity method to in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures. The standard also defines an associate by reference to the concept of "sig­nif­i­cant influence", which requires power to par­tic­i­pate in financial and operating policy decisions of an investee (but not joint control or control of those polices).
IAS 28 was reissued in May 2011 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IAS 28 (as amended in 2011)
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
July 1986 Exposure Draft E28 Accounting for In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures
April 1989 IAS 28 Accounting for In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates issued Effective 1 January 1990
1994 IAS 28 was re­for­mat­ted
December 1998 Amended by IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment Effective 1 January 2001
18 December 2003 IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
10 January 2008 Amended by IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions (loss of sig­nif­i­cant influence) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
22 May 2008 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (im­pair­ment testing) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
12 May 2011 IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (2011) issued (su­per­sedes IAS 28 (2003)) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
11 September 2014 Amended by Sale or Con­tri­bu­tion of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amend­ments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28) Effective on a prospec­tive basis to trans­ac­tions occurring in annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 deferred in­def­i­nitely (see below)
18 December 2014
Amended by In­vest­ment Entities: Applying the Con­sol­i­da­tion Exception (Amend­ments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28) (project history)
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
17 December 2015
Amended by Effective Date of Amend­ments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28
defer the effective date of the September 2014 amend­ments to these standards in­def­i­nitely
8 December 2016 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2014–2016 Cycle (Measuring an associate or joint venture at fair value)
Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
12 October 2017 Amended by Long-term Interests in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (Amend­ments to IAS 28) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
IFRS 13 — Unit of account
Research project — Equity method of accounting
Research project — Common control trans­ac­tions
Summary of IAS 28 (as amended in 2011)
The summary below applies to IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures, issued in May 2011 and applying to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. For earlier reporting periods, refer to our summary of IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates.
Objective of IAS 28
The objective of IAS 28 (as amended in 2011) is to prescribe the accounting for in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates and to set out the re­quire­ments for the ap­pli­ca­tion of the equity method when accounting for in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures. [IAS 28(2011).1]
Scope of IAS 28
IAS 28 applies to all entities that are investors with joint control of, or sig­nif­i­cant influence over, an investee (associate or joint venture). [IAS 28(2011).2]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IAS 28.3]
Associate An entity over which the investor has sig­nif­i­cant influence
Sig­nif­i­cant influence The power to par­tic­i­pate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control of those policies
Joint arrange­ment An arrange­ment of which two or more parties have joint control
Joint control The con­trac­tu­ally agreed sharing of control of an arrange­ment, which exists only when decisions about the relevant ac­tiv­i­ties require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control
Joint venture A joint arrange­ment whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrange­ment have rights to the net assets of the arrange­ment
Joint venturer A party to a joint venture that has joint control of that joint venture
Equity method A method of accounting whereby the in­vest­ment is initially recog­nised at cost and adjusted there­after for the post-ac­qui­si­tion change in the investor's share of the investee's net assets. The investor's profit or loss includes its share of the investee's profit or loss and the investor's other com­pre­hen­sive income includes its share of the investee's other com­pre­hen­sive income
Sig­nif­i­cant influence
Where an entity holds 20% or more of the voting power (directly or through sub­sidiaries) on an investee, it will be presumed the investor has sig­nif­i­cant influence unless it can be clearly demon­strated that this is not the case. If the holding is less than 20%, the entity will be presumed not to have sig­nif­i­cant influence unless such influence can be clearly demon­strated. A sub­stan­tial or majority ownership by another investor does not nec­es­sar­ily preclude an entity from having sig­nif­i­cant influence. [IAS 28(2011).5]
The existence of sig­nif­i­cant influence by an entity is usually evidenced in one or more of the following ways: [IAS 28(2011).6]
rep­re­sen­ta­tion on the board of directors or equiv­a­lent governing body of the investee;
par­tic­i­pa­tion in the pol­icy-mak­ing process, including par­tic­i­pa­tion in decisions about dividends or other dis­tri­b­u­tions;
material trans­ac­tions between the entity and the investee;
in­ter­change of man­age­r­ial personnel; or
provision of essential technical in­for­ma­tion
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently ex­er­cis­able or con­vert­ible, including potential voting rights held by other entities, are con­sid­ered when assessing whether an entity has sig­nif­i­cant influence. In assessing whether potential voting rights con­tribute to sig­nif­i­cant influence, the entity examines all facts and cir­cum­stances that affect potential rights [IAS 28(2011).7, IAS 28(2011).8]
An entity loses sig­nif­i­cant influence over an investee when it loses the power to par­tic­i­pate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that investee. The loss of sig­nif­i­cant influence can occur with or without a change in absolute or relative ownership levels. [IAS 28(2011).9]
The equity method of accounting
Basic principle. Under the equity method, on initial recog­ni­tion the in­vest­ment in an associate or a joint venture is recog­nised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor's share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of ac­qui­si­tion. [IAS 28(2011).10]
Dis­tri­b­u­tions and other ad­just­ments to carrying amount. The investor's share of the investee's profit or loss is recog­nised in the investor's profit or loss. Dis­tri­b­u­tions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the in­vest­ment. Ad­just­ments to the carrying amount may also be necessary for changes in the investor's pro­por­tion­ate interest in the investee arising from changes in the investee's other com­pre­hen­sive income (e.g. to account for changes arising from reval­u­a­tions of property, plant and equipment and foreign currency trans­la­tions.) [IAS 28(2011).10]
Potential voting rights. An entity's interest in an associate or a joint venture is de­ter­mined solely on the basis of existing ownership interests and, generally, does not reflect the possible exercise or con­ver­sion of potential voting rights and other de­riv­a­tive in­stru­ments. [IAS 28(2011).12]
In­ter­ac­tion with IFRS 9. IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments does not apply to interests in as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method. An entity applies IFRS 9, including its im­pair­ment re­quire­ments, to long-term interests in an associate or joint venture that form part of the net in­vest­ment in the associate or joint venture but to which the equity method is not applied. In­stru­ments con­tain­ing potential voting rights in an associate or a joint venture are accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9, unless they currently give access to the returns as­so­ci­ated with an ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture. [IAS 28(2011).14-14A]
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion as non-cur­rent asset. An in­vest­ment in an associate or a joint venture is generally clas­si­fied as non-cur­rent asset, unless it is clas­si­fied as held for sale in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions. [IAS 28(2011).15]
Ap­pli­ca­tion of the equity method of accounting
Basic principle. In its con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, an investor uses the equity method of accounting for in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures. [IAS 28(2011).16] Many of the pro­ce­dures that are ap­pro­pri­ate for the ap­pli­ca­tion of the equity method are similar to the con­sol­i­da­tion pro­ce­dures described in IFRS 10. Fur­ther­more, the concepts un­der­ly­ing the pro­ce­dures used in accounting for the ac­qui­si­tion of a sub­sidiary are also adopted in accounting for the ac­qui­si­tion of an in­vest­ment in an associate or a joint venture. [IAS 28.(2011).26]
Ex­emp­tions from applying the equity method. An entity is exempt from applying the equity method if the in­vest­ment meets one of the following con­di­tions:
The entity is a parent that is exempt from preparing con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments under IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­mentsor or if all of the following four con­di­tions are met (in which case the entity need not apply the equity method): [IAS 28(2011).17]
the entity is a wholly-owned sub­sidiary, or is a par­tially-owned sub­sidiary of another entity and its other owners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to, the investor not applying the equity method
the investor or joint venturer's debt or equity in­stru­ments are not traded in a public market
the entity did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial state­ments with a se­cu­ri­ties com­mis­sion or other reg­u­la­tory organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of in­stru­ments in a public market, and
the ultimate or any in­ter­me­di­ate parent of the parent produces financial state­ments available for public use that comply with IFRSs, in which sub­sidiaries are con­sol­i­dated or are measured at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 10.
When an in­vest­ment in an associate or a joint venture is held by, or is held in­di­rectly through, an entity that is a venture capital organisation, or a mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including in­vest­ment-linked insurance funds, the entity may elect to measure in­vest­ments in those as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9. The election is made sep­a­rately for each associate or joint venture on initial recog­ni­tion. [IAS 28(2011).18] When an entity has an in­vest­ment in an associate, a portion of which is held in­di­rectly through a venture capital organisation, or a mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including in­vest­ment-linked insurance funds, the entity may elect to measure that portion of the in­vest­ment in the associate at fair value through profit or loss in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 9 re­gard­less of whether the venture capital organisation, or the mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including in­vest­ment-linked insurance funds, has sig­nif­i­cant influence over that portion of the in­vest­ment. If the entity makes that election, the entity shall apply the equity method to any remaining portion of its in­vest­ment in an associate that is not held through a venture capital organisation, or a mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including in­vest­ment-linked insurance funds. [IAS 28(2011).19]
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion as held for sale. When the in­vest­ment, or portion of an in­vest­ment, meets the criteria to be clas­si­fied as held for sale, the portion so clas­si­fied is accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5. Any remaining portion is accounted for using the equity method until the time of disposal, at which time the retained in­vest­ment is accounted under IFRS 9, unless the retained interest continues to be an associate or joint venture. [IAS 28(2011).20]
Dis­con­tin­u­ing the equity method. Use of the equity method should cease from the date that sig­nif­i­cant influence or joint control ceases: [IAS 28(2011).22]
If the in­vest­ment becomes a sub­sidiary, the entity accounts for its in­vest­ment in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions and IFRS 10
If the retained interest is a financial asset, it is measured at fair value and sub­se­quently accounted for under IFRS 9
Any amounts recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income in relation to the in­vest­ment in the associate or joint venture are accounted for on the same basis as if the investee had directly disposed of the related assets or li­a­bil­i­ties (which may require re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion to profit or loss)
If an in­vest­ment in an associate becomes an in­vest­ment in a joint venture (or vice versa), the entity continues to apply the equity method and does not remeasure the retained interest. [IAS 28(2011).24]
Changes in ownership interests. If an entity's interest in an associate or joint venture is reduced, but the equity method is continued to be applied, the entity re­clas­si­fies to profit or loss the pro­por­tion of the gain or loss pre­vi­ously recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income relative to that reduction in ownership interest. [IAS 28(2011).25]
Equity method pro­ce­dures.
Trans­ac­tions with as­so­ci­ates or joint ventures. Profits and losses resulting from upstream (associate to investor, or joint venture to joint venturer) and down­stream (investor to associate, or joint venturer to joint venture) trans­ac­tions are elim­i­nated to the extent of the investor's interest in the associate or joint venture. However, un­re­alised losses are not elim­i­nated to the extent that the trans­ac­tion provides evidence of a reduction in the net re­al­is­able value or in the re­cov­er­able amount of the assets trans­ferred. Con­tri­bu­tions of non-mon­e­tary assets to an associate or joint venture in exchange for an equity interest in the associate or joint venture are also accounted for in ac­cor­dance with these re­quire­ments. [IAS 28(2011).28-30]
Initial accounting. An in­vest­ment is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which it becomes an associate or a joint venture. On ac­qui­si­tion, any dif­fer­ence between the cost of the in­vest­ment and the entity’s share of the net fair value of the investee's iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties in case of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the in­vest­ment (amor­ti­sa­tion not permitted) and any excess of the entity's share of the net fair value of the investee's iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties over the cost of the in­vest­ment is included as income in the de­ter­mi­na­tion of the entity's share of the associate or joint venture’s profit or loss in the period in which the in­vest­ment is acquired. Ad­just­ments to the entity's share of the associate's or joint venture's profit or loss after ac­qui­si­tion are made, for example, for de­pre­ci­a­tion of the de­pre­cia­ble assets based on their fair values at the ac­qui­si­tion date or for im­pair­ment losses such as for goodwill or property, plant and equipment. [IAS 28(2011).32]
Date of financial state­ments. In applying the equity method, the investor or joint venturer should use the financial state­ments of the associate or joint venture as of the same date as the financial state­ments of the investor or joint venturer unless it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble to do so. If it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble, the most recent available financial state­ments of the associate or joint venture should be used, with ad­just­ments made for the effects of any sig­nif­i­cant trans­ac­tions or events occurring between the accounting period ends. However, the dif­fer­ence between the reporting date of the associate and that of the investor cannot be longer than three months. [IAS 28(2011).33, IAS 28(2011).34]
Accounting policies. If the associate or joint venture uses accounting policies that differ from those of the investor, the associate or joint venture's financial state­ments are adjusted to reflect the investor's accounting policies for the purpose of applying the equity method. [IAS 28(2011).35]
Ap­pli­ca­tion of the equity method by a non-in­vest­ment entity investor to an in­vest­ment entity investee. When applying the equity method to an associate or a joint venture, a non-in­vest­ment entity investor in an in­vest­ment entity may retain the fair value mea­sure­ment applied by the associate or joint venture to its interests in sub­sidiaries. The election is made sep­a­rately for each associate or joint venture.[IAS 28(2011).36A]
Losses in excess of in­vest­ment. If an investor's or joint venturer's share of losses of an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the investor or joint venturer dis­con­tin­ues recog­nis­ing its share of further losses. The interest in an associate or joint venture is the carrying amount of the in­vest­ment in the associate or joint venture under the equity method together with any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the investor or joint venturer's net in­vest­ment in the associate or joint venture. After the investor or joint venturer's interest is reduced to zero, a liability is recog­nised only to the extent that the investor or joint venturer has incurred legal or con­struc­tive oblig­a­tions or made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate or joint venture sub­se­quently reports profits, the investor or joint venturer resumes recog­nis­ing its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recog­nised. [IAS 28(2011).38, IAS 28(2011).39]

Im­pair­ment. After ap­pli­ca­tion of the equity method an entity applies IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any ad­di­tional im­pair­ment loss with respect to its net in­vest­ment in the associate or joint venture. If im­pair­ment is indicated, the amount is cal­cu­lated by reference to IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets. The entire carrying amount of the in­vest­ment is tested for im­pair­ment as a single asset, that is, goodwill is not tested sep­a­rately. The re­cov­er­able amount of an in­vest­ment in an associate is assessed for each in­di­vid­ual associate or joint venture, unless the associate or joint venture does not generate cash flows in­de­pen­dently. [IAS 28(2011).40, IAS 28(2011).42, IAS 28(2011).43]
Separate financial state­ments
An in­vest­ment in an associate or a joint venture shall be accounted for in the entity's separate financial state­ments in ac­cor­dance with IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (as amended in 2011).
Dis­clo­sure
There are no dis­clo­sures specified in IAS 28. Instead, IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities outlines the dis­clo­sures required for entities with joint control of, or sig­nif­i­cant influence over, an investee.
Ap­plic­a­bil­ity and early adoption
IAS 28 (2011) is ap­plic­a­ble to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. [IAS 28(2011).45]
An entity may apply IAS 28 (2011) to an earlier accounting period, but if doing so it must disclose the fact that is has early adopted the standard and also apply: [IAS 28(2011).45]
IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments
IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments
IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments (2011).
IAS 28 — Investments in Associates (2003)
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates outlines the accounting for in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates. An associate is an entity over which an investor has sig­nif­i­cant influence, being the power to par­tic­i­pate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee (but not control or joint control), and in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates are, with limited ex­cep­tions, required to be accounted for using the equity method.
IAS 28 was reissued in December 2003, applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, and is su­per­seded by IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities with effect from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IAS 28
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
July 1986 Exposure Draft E28 Accounting for In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures
April 1989 IAS 28 Accounting for In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates issued Effective 1 January 1990
1994 IAS 28 was re­for­mat­ted
December 1998 Amended by IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment Effective 1 January 2001
18 December 2003 IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
10 January 2008 Amended by IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions (loss of sig­nif­i­cant influence) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
22 May 2008 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (im­pair­ment testing) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
12 May 2011 Su­per­seded by IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures (2011) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IAS 28 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-3 Elim­i­na­tion of Un­re­alised Profits and Losses on Trans­ac­tions with As­so­ci­ates
IAS 28 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-20 Equity Accounting Method – Recog­ni­tion of Losses
IAS 28 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-33 Con­sol­i­da­tion and Equity Method – Potential Voting Rights and Al­lo­ca­tion of Ownership Interest
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Summary of IAS 28
Scope
IAS 28 applies to all in­vest­ments in which an investor has sig­nif­i­cant influence but not control or joint control except for in­vest­ments held by a venture capital organisation, mutual fund, unit trust, and similar entity that are des­ig­nated under IAS 39 to be at fair value with fair value changes recog­nised in profit or loss. [IAS 28.1]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 28.2]
Associate: an entity in which an investor has sig­nif­i­cant influence but not control or joint control.
Sig­nif­i­cant influence: power to par­tic­i­pate in the financial and operating policy decisions but not control them.
Equity method: a method of accounting by which an equity in­vest­ment is initially recorded at cost and sub­se­quently adjusted to reflect the investor's share of the net assets of the associate (investee).
Iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of as­so­ci­ates
A holding of 20% or more of the voting power (directly or through sub­sidiaries) will indicate sig­nif­i­cant influence unless it can be clearly demon­strated otherwise. If the holding is less than 20%, the investor will be presumed not to have sig­nif­i­cant influence unless such influence can be clearly demon­strated. [IAS 28.6]
The existence of sig­nif­i­cant influence by an investor is usually evidenced in one or more of the following ways: [IAS 28.7]
rep­re­sen­ta­tion on the board of directors or equiv­a­lent governing body of the investee
par­tic­i­pa­tion in the pol­icy-mak­ing process
material trans­ac­tions between the investor and the investee
in­ter­change of man­age­r­ial personnel
provision of essential technical in­for­ma­tion
Potential voting rights are a factor to be con­sid­ered in deciding whether sig­nif­i­cant influence exists. [IAS 28.9]
Accounting for as­so­ci­ates
In its con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, an investor should use the equity method of accounting for in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates, other than in the following three ex­cep­tional cir­cum­stances:
An in­vest­ment in an associate held by a venture capital organisation or a mutual fund (or similar entity) and that upon initial recog­ni­tion is des­ig­nated as held for trading under IAS 39. Under IAS 39, those in­vest­ments are measured at fair value with fair value changes recog­nised in profit or loss. [IAS 28.1]
An in­vest­ment clas­si­fied as held for sale in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5. [IAS 28.13(a)]
A parent that is exempted from preparing con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments by paragraph 10 of IAS 27 may prepare separate financial state­ments as its primary financial state­ments. In those separate state­ments, the in­vest­ment in the associate may be accounted for by the cost method or under IAS 39. [IAS 28.13(b)]
An investor need not use the equity method if all of the following four con­di­tions are met: [IAS 28.13(c)]
the investor is itself a wholly-owned sub­sidiary, or is a par­tially-owned sub­sidiary of another entity and its other owners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to, the investor not applying the equity method;
the investor's debt or equity in­stru­ments are not traded in a public market;
the investor did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial state­ments with a se­cu­ri­ties com­mis­sion or other reg­u­la­tory organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of in­stru­ments in a public market; and
the ultimate or any in­ter­me­di­ate parent of the investor produces con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments available for public use that comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Applying the equity method of accounting
Basic principle. Under the equity method of accounting, an equity in­vest­ment is initially recorded at cost and is sub­se­quently adjusted to reflect the investor's share of the net profit or loss of the associate. [IAS 28.11]
Dis­tri­b­u­tions and other ad­just­ments to carrying amount. Dis­tri­b­u­tions received from the investee reduce the carrying amount of the in­vest­ment. Ad­just­ments to the carrying amount may also be required arising from changes in the investee's other com­pre­hen­sive income that have not been included in profit or loss (for example, reval­u­a­tions). [IAS 28.11]
Potential voting rights. Although potential voting rights are con­sid­ered in deciding whether sig­nif­i­cant influence exists, the investor's share of profit or loss of the investee and of changes in the investee's equity is de­ter­mined on the basis of present ownership interests. It should not reflect the possible exercise or con­ver­sion of potential voting rights. [IAS 28.12]
Implicit goodwill and fair value ad­just­ments. On ac­qui­si­tion of the in­vest­ment in an associate, any dif­fer­ence (whether positive or negative) between the cost of ac­qui­si­tion and the investor's share of the fair values of the net iden­ti­fi­able assets of the associate is accounted for like goodwill in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions. Ap­pro­pri­ate ad­just­ments to the investor's share of the profits or losses after ac­qui­si­tion are made to account for ad­di­tional de­pre­ci­a­tion or amor­ti­sa­tion of the associate's de­pre­cia­ble or amor­ti­s­able assets based on the excess of their fair values over their carrying amounts at the time the in­vest­ment was acquired. [IAS 28.23]
Im­pair­ment. The im­pair­ment in­di­ca­tors in IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment, apply to in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates. [IAS 28.31] If im­pair­ment is indicated, the amount is cal­cu­lated by reference to IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets. The entire carrying amount of the in­vest­ment is tested for im­pair­ment as a single asset, that is, goodwill is not tested sep­a­rately. [IAS 28.33] The re­cov­er­able amount of an in­vest­ment in an associate is assessed for each in­di­vid­ual associate, unless the associate does not generate cash flows in­de­pen­dently. [IAS 28.34]
Dis­con­tin­u­ing the equity method. Use of the equity method should cease from the date that sig­nif­i­cant influence ceases. The carrying amount of the in­vest­ment at that date should be regarded as a new cost basis. [IAS 28.18-19]
Trans­ac­tions with as­so­ci­ates. If an associate is accounted for using the equity method, un­re­alised profits and losses resulting from upstream (associate to investor) and down­stream (investor to associate) trans­ac­tions should be elim­i­nated to the extent of the investor's interest in the associate. However, un­re­alised losses should not be elim­i­nated to the extent that the trans­ac­tion provides evidence of an im­pair­ment of the asset trans­ferred. [IAS 28.22]
Date of associate's financial state­ments. In applying the equity method, the investor should use the financial state­ments of the associate as of the same date as the financial state­ments of the investor unless it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble to do so. [IAS 28.24] If it is im­prac­ti­ca­ble, the most recent available financial state­ments of the associate should be used, with ad­just­ments made for the effects of any sig­nif­i­cant trans­ac­tions or events occurring between the accounting period ends. However, the dif­fer­ence between the reporting date of the associate and that of the investor cannot be longer than three months. [IAS 28.25]
Associate's accounting policies. If the associate uses accounting policies that differ from those of the investor, the associate's financial state­ments should be adjusted to reflect the investor's accounting policies for the purpose of applying the equity method. [IAS 28.27]
Losses in excess of in­vest­ment. If an investor's share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its "interest in the associate", the investor dis­con­tin­ues recog­nis­ing its share of further losses. The "interest in an associate" is the carrying amount of the in­vest­ment in the associate under the equity method together with any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the investor's net in­vest­ment in the associate. [IAS 28.29] After the investor's interest is reduced to zero, ad­di­tional losses are recog­nised by a provision (liability) only to the extent that the investor has incurred legal or con­struc­tive oblig­a­tions or made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate sub­se­quently reports profits, the investor resumes recog­nis­ing its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recog­nised. [IAS 28.30]
Partial disposals of as­so­ci­ates. If an investor loses sig­nif­i­cant influence over an associate, it dere­cog­nises that associate and recog­nises in profit or loss the dif­fer­ence between the sum of the proceeds received and any retained interest, and the carrying amount of the in­vest­ment in the associate at the date sig­nif­i­cant influence is lost.
Separate financial state­ments of the investor
Equity accounting is required in the separate financial state­ments of the investor even if con­sol­i­dated accounts are not required, for example, because the investor has no sub­sidiaries. But equity accounting is not required where the investor would be exempt from preparing con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments under IAS 27. In that cir­cum­stance, instead of equity accounting, the parent would account for the in­vest­ment either (a) at cost or (b) in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39.
Dis­clo­sure
The following dis­clo­sures are required: [IAS 28.37]
fair value of in­vest­ments in as­so­ci­ates for which there are published price quo­ta­tions
sum­marised financial in­for­ma­tion of as­so­ci­ates, including the ag­gre­gated amounts of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, revenues, and profit or loss
ex­pla­na­tions when in­vest­ments of less than 20% are accounted for by the equity method or when in­vest­ments of more than 20% are not accounted for by the equity method
use of a reporting date of the financial state­ments of an associate that is different from that of the investor
nature and extent of any sig­nif­i­cant re­stric­tions on the ability of as­so­ci­ates to transfer funds to the investor in the form of cash dividends, or repayment of loans or advances
un­recog­nised share of losses of an associate, both for the period and cu­mu­la­tively, if an investor has dis­con­tin­ued recog­ni­tion of its share of losses of an associate
ex­pla­na­tion of any associate is not accounted for using the equity method
sum­marised financial in­for­ma­tion of as­so­ci­ates, either in­di­vid­u­ally or in groups, that are not accounted for using the equity method, including the amounts of total assets, total li­a­bil­i­ties, revenues, and profit or loss
The following dis­clo­sures relating to con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties are also required: [IAS 28.40]
investor's share of the con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties of an associate incurred jointly with other investors
con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties that arise because the investor is severally liable for all or part of the li­a­bil­i­ties of the associate
Venture capital or­gan­i­sa­tions, mutual funds, and other similar entities must provide dis­clo­sures about nature and extent of any sig­nif­i­cant re­stric­tions on transfer of funds by as­so­ci­ates. [IAS 28.1]
Pre­sen­ta­tion
Equity method in­vest­ments must be clas­si­fied as non-cur­rent assets. [IAS 28.38]
The investor's share of the profit or loss of equity method in­vest­ments, and the carrying amount of those in­vest­ments, must be sep­a­rately disclosed. [IAS 28.38]
The investor's share of any dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions of such as­so­ci­ates is also sep­a­rately disclosed. [IAS 28.38]
The investor's share of changes recog­nised directly in the associate's other com­pre­hen­sive income are also recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income by the investor, with dis­clo­sure in the statement of changes in equity as required by IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments. [IAS 28.39]
IAS 29 — Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies applies where an entity's func­tional currency is that of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy. The standard does not prescribe when hy­per­in­fla­tion arises but requires the financial state­ments (and cor­re­spond­ing figures for previous periods) of an entity with a func­tional currency that is hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary to be restated for the changes in the general pricing power of the func­tional currency.
IAS 29 was issued in July 1989 and is operative for periods beginning on or after 1 January 1990.
History of IAS 29
November 1987 Exposure Draft E31 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies
July 1989 IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies
1 January 1990 Effective date of IAS 29 (1989)
1994 IAS 29 was re­for­mat­ted
22 May 2008 IAS 29 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007
1 January 2009 Effective date of the May 2008 revisions to IAS 29
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IAS 21 su­per­seded SIC-19 Reporting Currency – Mea­sure­ment and Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments under IAS 21 and IAS 29
IAS 21 su­per­seded SIC-30 Reporting Currency – Trans­la­tion from Mea­sure­ment Currency to Pre­sen­ta­tion Currency
IFRIC 7 Applying the Re­state­ment Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Research project — Financial reporting in high in­fla­tion­ary economies
Summary of IAS 29
Objective of IAS 29
The objective of IAS 29 is to establish specific standards for entities reporting in the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy, so that the financial in­for­ma­tion provided is mean­ing­ful.
Re­state­ment of financial state­ments
The basic principle in IAS 29 is that the financial state­ments of an entity that reports in the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy should be stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the balance sheet date. Com­par­a­tive figures for prior period(s) should be restated into the same current measuring unit. [IAS 29.8]
Re­state­ments are made by applying a general price index. Items such as monetary items that are already stated at the measuring unit at the balance sheet date are not restated. Other items are restated based on the change in the general price index between the date those items were acquired or incurred and the balance sheet date.
A gain or loss on the net monetary position is included in net income. It should be disclosed sep­a­rately. [IAS 29.9]
The restated amount of a non-mon­e­tary item is reduced, in ac­cor­dance with ap­pro­pri­ate IFRSs, when it exceeds its the re­cov­er­able amount. [IAS 29.19]
The Standard does not establish an absolute rate at which hy­per­in­fla­tion is deemed to arise - but allows judgement as to when re­state­ment of financial state­ments becomes necessary. Char­ac­ter­is­tics of the economic en­vi­ron­ment of a country which indicate the existence of hy­per­in­fla­tion include: [IAS 29.3]
the general pop­u­la­tion prefers to keep its wealth in non-mon­e­tary assets or in a rel­a­tively stable foreign currency. Amounts of local currency held are im­me­di­ately invested to maintain pur­chas­ing power;
the general pop­u­la­tion regards monetary amounts not in terms of the local currency but in terms of a rel­a­tively stable foreign currency. Prices may be quoted in that currency;
sales and purchases on credit take place at prices that com­pen­sate for the expected loss of pur­chas­ing power during the credit period, even if the period is short;
interest rates, wages, and prices are linked to a price index; and
the cu­mu­la­tive inflation rate over three years ap­proaches, or exceeds, 100%.
IAS 29 describes char­ac­ter­is­tics that may indicate that an economy is hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary. However, it concludes that it is a matter of judgement when re­state­ment of financial state­ments becomes necessary.
When an economy ceases to be hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary and an entity dis­con­tin­ues the prepa­ra­tion and pre­sen­ta­tion of financial state­ments in ac­cor­dance with IAS 29, it should treat the amounts expressed in the measuring unit current at the end of the previous reporting period as the basis for the carrying amounts in its sub­se­quent financial state­ments. [IAS 29.38]
Dis­clo­sure
Gain or loss on monetary items [IAS 29.9]
The fact that financial state­ments and other prior period data have been restated for changes in the general pur­chas­ing power of the reporting currency [IAS 29.39]
Whether the financial state­ments are based on an his­tor­i­cal cost or current cost approach [IAS 29.39]
Identity and level of the price index at the balance sheet date and moves during the current and previous reporting period [IAS 29.39]
Which ju­ris­dic­tions are hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary?
IAS 29 defines and provides general guidance for assessing whether a par­tic­u­lar ju­ris­dic­tion's economy is hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary. But the IASB does not identify specific ju­ris­dic­tions. The International Practices Task Force (IPTF) of the Centre for Audit Quality monitors the status of 'highly in­fla­tion­ary' countries. The Task Force's criteria for iden­ti­fy­ing such countries are similar to those for iden­ti­fy­ing 'hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economies' under IAS 29. From time to time, the IPTF issues reports of its dis­cus­sions with SEC staff on the IPTF's rec­om­men­da­tions of which countries should be con­sid­ered highly in­fla­tion­ary, and which countries are on the Task Force's inflation 'watch list'. The IPTF's dis­cus­sion document for the 19 November 2019 meeting states the following view of the Task Force:
Countries with three-year cu­mu­la­tive inflation rates exceeding 100%:
Argentina
South Sudan
Sudan
Venezuela
Zimbabwe
Countries with projected three-year cu­mu­la­tive inflation rates exceeding 100%:
Islamic Republic of Iran
Countries where the three-year cu­mu­la­tive inflation rates had exceeded 100% in recent years:
There are no countries in this category for this period.
Countries with recent three-year cu­mu­la­tive inflation rates exceeding 100% after a spike in inflation in a discrete period:
Angola
Suriname
Countries with projected three-year cu­mu­la­tive inflation rates between 70% and 100% or with a sig­nif­i­cant (25% or more) increase in inflation during the current period
De­mo­c­ra­tic Republic of Congo
Liberia
Yemen
The IPTF also notes that there may be ad­di­tional countries with three-year cu­mu­la­tive inflation rates exceeding 100% or that should be monitored which are not included in the analysis as the necessary data is not available. An example cited is Syria.
The full list, including exact numbers, detailed ex­pla­na­tions of the cal­cu­la­tion of the numbers, and ob­ser­va­tions of the Task Force is available on the CAQ website.
IAS 30 — Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions
Quick Article Links
History of IAS 30
April 1987 Exposure Draft E29 Dis­clo­sures in Financial State­ments of Banks
July 1989 Exposure Draft E29 was modified and re-ex­posed as Exposure Draft E34 Dis­clo­sures in Financial State­ments of Banks and Similar Financial In­sti­tu­tions
August 1990 IAS 30 Dis­clo­sures in Financial State­ments of Banks and Similar Financial In­sti­tu­tions
1 January 1991 Effective date of IAS 30 (1990)
1994 IAS 30 was re­for­mat­ted
December 1998 IAS 30 was amended by IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment, effective 1 January 2001
18 August 2005 IAS 30 is su­per­seded by IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures effective 1 January 2007
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Summary of IAS 30
Objective of IAS 30
The objective of IAS 30 is to prescribe ap­pro­pri­ate pre­sen­ta­tion and dis­clo­sure standards for banks and similar financial in­sti­tu­tions (hereafter called 'banks'), which sup­ple­ment the re­quire­ments of other Standards. The intention is to provide users with ap­pro­pri­ate in­for­ma­tion to assist them in eval­u­at­ing the financial position and per­for­mance of banks, and to enable them to obtain a better un­der­stand­ing of the special char­ac­ter­is­tics of the op­er­a­tions of banks.
Pre­sen­ta­tion and dis­clo­sure
A bank's income statement should group income and expenses by nature. [IAS 30.9]
A bank's income statement or notes should report the following specific amounts: [IAS 30.10]
interest income
interest expense
dividend income
fee and com­mis­sion income
fee and com­mis­sion expense
net gains/losses from se­cu­ri­ties dealing
net gains/losses from in­vest­ment se­cu­ri­ties
net gains/losses from foreign currency dealing
other operating income
loan losses
general ad­min­is­tra­tive expenses
other operating expenses.
A bank's balance sheet should group assets and li­a­bil­i­ties by nature and list them in liquidity sequence. [IAS 30.18] IAS 30.19 sets out the specific line items requiring dis­clo­sure.
IAS 30.13 and IAS 30.23 include guide­lines for the limited cir­cum­stances in which income and expense items or asset and liability items are offset.
A bank must disclose the fair values of each class of its financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties as required by IAS 32 and IAS 39. [IAS 30.24]
Dis­clo­sures are also required about:
specific con­tin­gen­cies and com­mit­ments (including off-bal­ance sheet items) requiring dis­clo­sure [IAS 30.26]
specified dis­clo­sures for the maturity of assets and li­a­bil­i­ties [IAS 30.30]
con­cen­tra­tions of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties and off-bal­ance sheet items [IAS 30.40]
losses on loans and advances [IAS 30.43]
general banking risks [IAS 30.50]
assets pledged as security [IAS 30.53].
IAS 31 — Interests In Joint Ventures
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures sets out the accounting for an entity's interests in various forms of joint ventures: jointly con­trolled op­er­a­tions, jointly con­trolled assets, and jointly con­trolled entities. The standard permits jointly con­trolled entities to be accounted for using either the equity method or by pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion.
IAS 31 was reissued in December 2003, applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, and is su­per­seded by IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments and IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities with effect from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
History of IAS 31
December 1989 Exposure Draft E35 Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures
December 1990 IAS 31 Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures
1 January 1992 Effective date of IAS 31 (1990)
1994 IAS 31 was re­for­mat­ted
December 1998 IAS 31 was revised by IAS 39 effective 1 January 2001
18 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 31 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 31 (Revised 2003)
13 September 2007 Exposure Draft ED 9 Joint Arrange­ments issued. Proposes to replace IAS 31 with a new standard titled Joint Arrange­ments.
10 January 2008 Some sig­nif­i­cant revisions of IAS 31 were adopted as a result of the Business Com­bi­na­tions Phase II Project relating to loss of joint control
22 May 2008 IAS 31 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 for certain dis­clo­sures and reversals of im­pair­ment losses (equity method)
1 January 2009 Effective date of the May 2008 revisions to IAS 31
1 July 2009 Effective date of the January 2008 revisions to IAS 31
12 May 2011 IAS 31 is su­per­seded by IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments and IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities effective 1 January 2013
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
SIC-13 Jointly Con­trolled Entities – Non-Mon­e­tary Con­tri­bu­tions by Venturers. Su­per­seded by IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments effective 1 January 2013
Summary of IAS 31
Scope
IAS 31 applies to accounting for all interests in joint ventures and the reporting of joint venture assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income, and expenses in the financial state­ments of venturers and investors, re­gard­less of the struc­tures or forms under which the joint venture ac­tiv­i­ties take place, except for in­vest­ments held by a venture capital organisation, mutual fund, unit trust, and similar entity that (by election or re­quire­ment) are accounted for as under IAS 39 at fair value with fair value changes recog­nised in profit or loss. [IAS 31.1]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 31.3]
Joint venture: a con­trac­tual arrange­ment whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Venturer: a party to a joint venture and has joint control over that joint venture.
Investor in a joint venture: a party to a joint venture and does not have joint control over that joint venture.
Control: the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an activity so as to obtain benefits from it.
Joint control: the con­trac­tu­ally agreed sharing of control over an economic activity. Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the venturers.
Jointly con­trolled op­er­a­tions
Jointly con­trolled op­er­a­tions involve the use of assets and other resources of the venturers rather than the es­tab­lish­ment of a separate entity. Each venturer uses its own assets, incurs its own expenses and li­a­bil­i­ties, and raises its own finance. [IAS 31.13]
IAS 31 requires that the venturer should recognise in its financial state­ments the assets that it controls, the li­a­bil­i­ties that it incurs, the expenses that it incurs, and its share of the income from the sale of goods or services by the joint venture. [IAS 31.15]
Jointly con­trolled assets
Jointly con­trolled assets involve the joint control, and often the joint ownership, of assets dedicated to the joint venture. Each venturer may take a share of the output from the assets and each bears a share of the expenses incurred. [IAS 31.18]
IAS 31 requires that the venturer should recognise in its financial state­ments its share of the joint assets, any li­a­bil­i­ties that it has incurred directly and its share of any li­a­bil­i­ties incurred jointly with the other venturers, income from the sale or use of its share of the output of the joint venture, its share of expenses incurred by the joint venture and expenses incurred directly in respect of its interest in the joint venture. [IAS 31.21]
Jointly con­trolled entities
A jointly con­trolled entity is a cor­po­ra­tion, part­ner­ship, or other entity in which two or more venturers have an interest, under a con­trac­tual arrange­ment that es­tab­lishes joint control over the entity. [IAS 31.24]
Each venturer usually con­tributes cash or other resources to the jointly con­trolled entity. Those con­tri­bu­tions are included in the accounting records of the venturer and recog­nised in the venturer's financial state­ments as an in­vest­ment in the jointly con­trolled entity. [IAS 31.29]
IAS 31 allows two treat­ments of accounting for an in­vest­ment in jointly con­trolled entities – except as noted below:
pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion [IAS 31.30]
equity method of accounting [IAS 31.38]
Pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion or equity method are not required in the following ex­cep­tional cir­cum­stances: [IAS 31.1-2]
An in­vest­ment in a jointly con­trolled entity that is held by a venture capital organisation or mutual fund (or similar entity) and that upon initial recog­ni­tion is des­ig­nated as held for trading under IAS 39. Under IAS 39, those in­vest­ments are measured at fair value with fair value changes recog­nised in profit or loss.
The interest is clas­si­fied as held for sale in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 5.
A parent that is exempted from preparing con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments by paragraph 10 of IAS 27 may prepare separate financial state­ments as its primary financial state­ments. In those separate state­ments, the in­vest­ment in the jointly con­trolled entity may be accounted for by the cost method or under IAS 39.
An investor in a jointly con­trolled entity need not use pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion or the equity method if all of the following four con­di­tions are met:
the venturer is itself a wholly-owned sub­sidiary, or is a par­tially-owned sub­sidiary of another entity and its other owners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to, the venturer not applying pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion or the equity method;
the venturer's debt or equity in­stru­ments are not traded in a public market;
the venturer did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial state­ments with a se­cu­ri­ties com­mis­sion or other reg­u­la­tory organisation for the purpose of issuing any class of in­stru­ments in a public market; and
the ultimate or any in­ter­me­di­ate parent of the venturer produces con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments available for public use that comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion
Under pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion, the balance sheet of the venturer includes its share of the assets that it controls jointly and its share of the li­a­bil­i­ties for which it is jointly re­spon­si­ble. The income statement of the venturer includes its share of the income and expenses of the jointly con­trolled entity. [IAS 31.33]
IAS 31 allows for the use of two different reporting formats for pre­sent­ing pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion: [IAS 31.34]
The venturer may combine its share of each of the assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income and expenses of the jointly con­trolled entity with the similar items, line by line, in its financial state­ments; or
The venturer may include separate line items for its share of the assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income and expenses of the jointly con­trolled entity in its financial state­ments.
Equity method
Pro­ce­dures for applying the equity method are the same as those described in IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates.
Separate financial state­ments of the venturer
In the separate financial state­ments of the venturer, its interests in the joint venture should be: [IAS 31.46]
accounted for at cost; or
accounted for under IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment.
Trans­ac­tions between a venturer and a joint venture
If a venturer con­tributes or sells an asset to a jointly con­trolled entity, while the assets are retained by the joint venture, provided that the venturer has trans­ferred the risks and rewards of ownership, it should recognise only the pro­por­tion of the gain at­trib­ut­able to the other venturers. The venturer should recognise the full amount of any loss incurred when the con­tri­bu­tion or sale provides evidence of a reduction in the net re­al­is­able value of current assets or an im­pair­ment loss. [IAS 31.48]
The re­quire­ments for recog­ni­tion of gains and losses apply equally to non-mon­e­tary con­tri­bu­tions unless the gain or loss cannot be measured, or the other venturers con­tribute similar assets. Un­re­alised gains or losses should be elim­i­nated against the un­der­ly­ing assets (pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion) or against the in­vest­ment (equity method). [SIC-13]
When a venturer purchases assets from a jointly con­trolled entity, it should not recognise its share of the gain until it resells the asset to an in­de­pen­dent party. Losses should be recog­nised when they represent a reduction in the net re­al­is­able value of current assets or an im­pair­ment loss. [IAS 31.49]
Financial state­ments of an investor
An investor in a joint venture who does not have joint control should report its interest in a joint venture in its con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments either: [IAS 31.51]
in ac­cor­dance with IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates – only if the investor has sig­nif­i­cant influence in the joint venture; or
in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment.
Partial disposals of joint ventures
If an investor loses joint control of a jointly con­trolled entity, it dere­cog­nises that in­vest­ment and recog­nises in profit or loss the dif­fer­ence between the sum of the proceeds received and any retained interest, and the carrying amount of the in­vest­ment in the jointly con­trolled entity at the date when joint control is lost. [IAS 31.45]
Dis­clo­sure
A venturer is required to disclose:
In­for­ma­tion about con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties relating to its interest in a joint venture. [IAS 31.54]
In­for­ma­tion about com­mit­ments relating to its interests in joint ventures. [IAS 31.55]
A listing and de­scrip­tion of interests in sig­nif­i­cant joint ventures and the pro­por­tion of ownership interest held in jointly con­trolled entities. A venturer that recog­nises its interests in jointly con­trolled entities using the line-by-line reporting format for pro­por­tion­ate con­sol­i­da­tion or the equity method shall disclose the aggregate amounts of each of current assets, long-term assets, current li­a­bil­i­ties, long-term li­a­bil­i­ties, income, and expenses related to its interests in joint ventures. [IAS 31.56]
The method it uses to recognise its interests in jointly con­trolled entities. [IAS 31.57]
Venture capital or­gan­i­sa­tions or mutual funds that account for their interests in jointly con­trolled entities in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39 must make the dis­clo­sures required by IAS 31.55-56. [IAS 31.1]
IAS 32 — Financial Instruments: Presentation
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion outlines the accounting re­quire­ments for the pre­sen­ta­tion of financial in­stru­ments, par­tic­u­larly as to the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of such in­stru­ments into financial assets, financial li­a­bil­i­ties and equity in­stru­ments. The standard also provide guidance on the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of related interest, dividends and gains/losses, and when financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties can be offset.
IAS 32 was reissued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of  IAS 32
September 1991 Exposure Draft E40 Financial In­stru­ments
January 1994 E40 was modified and re-ex­posed as Exposure Draft E48 Financial In­stru­ments
June 1995 The dis­clo­sure and pre­sen­ta­tion portion of E48 was adopted as IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sure and Pre­sen­ta­tion
1 January 1996 Effective date of IAS 32 (1995)
December 1998 IAS 32 was revised by IAS 39, effective 1 January 2001
17 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 32 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 32 (2003)
18 August 2005 Dis­clo­sure pro­vi­sions of IAS 32 are replaced by IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures effective 1 January 2007. Title of IAS 32 changed to Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
22 June 2006 Exposure Draft of proposed amend­ments relating to Puttable In­stru­ments and Oblig­a­tions Arising on Liq­ui­da­tion
14 February 2008 IAS 32 amended for Puttable In­stru­ments and Oblig­a­tions Arising on Liq­ui­da­tion
1 January 2009 Effective date of amend­ments for puttable in­stru­ments and oblig­a­tions arising on liq­ui­da­tion
6 August 2009 Exposure Draft Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of Rights Issues proposing to amend IAS 32
8 October 2009 Amendment to IAS 32 about Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of Rights Issues
1 February 2010 Effective date of the October 2009 amendment
16 December 2011 Off­set­ting Financial Assets and Financial Li­a­bil­i­ties (Amend­ments to IAS 32) issued
17 May 2012 Amend­ments resulting from Annual Im­prove­ments 2009-2011 Cycle (tax effect of equity dis­tri­b­u­tions). Click for More In­for­ma­tion
1 January 2013 Effective date of May 2012 amend­ments (Annual Im­prove­ments 2009-2011 Cycle)
1 January 2014 Effective date of December 2011 amend­ments
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IAS 32 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-5 Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of Financial In­stru­ments – Con­tin­gent Set­tle­ment Pro­vi­sions
IAS 32 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-16 Share Capital – Reac­quired Own Equity In­stru­ments (Treasury Shares)
IAS 32 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-17 Equity – Costs of an Equity Trans­ac­tion
IFRIC 2 Members' Shares in Co-op­er­a­tive Entities and Similar In­stru­ments
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Financial In­stru­ments with Char­ac­ter­is­tics of Equity (Li­a­bil­i­ties and Equity)
Summary of IAS 32
Objective of IAS 32
The stated objective of IAS 32 is to establish prin­ci­ples for pre­sent­ing financial in­stru­ments as li­a­bil­i­ties or equity and for off­set­ting financial assets and li­a­bil­i­ties. [IAS 32.1]
IAS 32 addresses this in a number of ways:
clar­i­fy­ing the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of a financial in­stru­ment issued by an entity as a liability or as equity
pre­scrib­ing the accounting for treasury shares (an entity's own re­pur­chased shares)
pre­scrib­ing strict con­di­tions under which assets and li­a­bil­i­ties may be offset in the balance sheet
IAS 32 is a companion to IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment and IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments. IAS 39 and IFRS 9 deal with initial recog­ni­tion of financial assets and li­a­bil­i­ties, mea­sure­ment sub­se­quent to initial recog­ni­tion, im­pair­ment, dere­cog­ni­tion, and hedge accounting. IAS 39 was pro­gres­sively replaced by IFRS 9 as the IASB completed the various phases of its financial in­stru­ments project.
Scope
IAS 32 applies in pre­sent­ing and dis­clos­ing in­for­ma­tion about all types of financial in­stru­ments with the following ex­cep­tions: [IAS 32.4]
interests in sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates and joint ventures that are accounted for under IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments, IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates or IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures (or, for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments, IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments and IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures). However, IAS 32 applies to all de­riv­a­tives on interests in sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates, or joint ventures.
employers' rights and oblig­a­tions under employee benefit plans (see IAS 19 Employee Benefits)
insurance contracts(see IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts). However, IAS 32 applies to de­riv­a­tives that are embedded in insurance contracts if they are required to be accounted sep­a­rately by IAS 39
financial in­stru­ments that are within the scope of IFRS 4 because they contain a dis­cre­tionary par­tic­i­pa­tion feature are only exempt from applying para­graphs 15-32 and AG25-35 (analysing debt and equity com­po­nents) but are subject to all other IAS 32 re­quire­ments
contracts and oblig­a­tions under share-based payment trans­ac­tions (see IFRS 2 Share-based Payment) with the following ex­cep­tions:
this standard applies to contracts within the scope of IAS 32.8-10 (see below)
para­graphs 33-34 apply when accounting for treasury shares purchased, sold, issued or cancelled by employee share option plans or similar arrange­ments
IAS 32 applies to those contracts to buy or sell a non-fi­nan­cial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial in­stru­ment, except for contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-fi­nan­cial item in ac­cor­dance with the entity's expected purchase, sale or usage re­quire­ments. [IAS 32.8]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 32.11]
Financial in­stru­ment: a contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity in­stru­ment of another entity.
Financial asset: any asset that is:
cash
an equity in­stru­ment of another entity
a con­trac­tual right
to receive cash or another financial asset from another entity; or
to exchange financial assets or financial li­a­bil­i­ties with another entity under con­di­tions that are po­ten­tially favourable to the entity; or
a contract that will or may be settled in the entity's own equity in­stru­ments and is:
a non-de­riv­a­tive for which the entity is or may be obliged to receive a variable number of the entity's own equity in­stru­ments
a de­riv­a­tive that will or may be settled other than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of the entity's own equity in­stru­ments. For this purpose the entity's own equity in­stru­ments do not include in­stru­ments that are them­selves contracts for the future receipt or delivery of the entity's own equity in­stru­ments
puttable in­stru­ments clas­si­fied as equity or certain li­a­bil­i­ties arising on liq­ui­da­tion clas­si­fied by IAS 32 as equity in­stru­ments
Financial liability: any liability that is:
a con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion:
to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity; or
to exchange financial assets or financial li­a­bil­i­ties with another entity under con­di­tions that are po­ten­tially un­favourable to the entity; or
a contract that will or may be settled in the entity's own equity in­stru­ments and is
a non-de­riv­a­tive for which the entity is or may be obliged to deliver a variable number of the entity's own equity in­stru­ments or
a de­riv­a­tive that will or may be settled other than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of the entity's own equity in­stru­ments. For this purpose the entity's own equity in­stru­ments do not include: in­stru­ments that are them­selves contracts for the future receipt or delivery of the entity's own equity in­stru­ments; puttable in­stru­ments clas­si­fied as equity or certain li­a­bil­i­ties arising on liq­ui­da­tion clas­si­fied by IAS 32 as equity in­stru­ments
Equity in­stru­ment: Any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its li­a­bil­i­ties.
Fair value: the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowl­edge­able, willing parties in an arm's length trans­ac­tion.
The de­f­i­n­i­tion of financial in­stru­ment used in IAS 32 is the same as that in IAS 39.
Puttable in­stru­ment: a financial in­stru­ment that gives the holder the right to put the in­stru­ment back to the issuer for cash or another financial asset or is au­to­mat­i­cally put back to the issuer on oc­cur­rence of an uncertain future event or the death or re­tire­ment of the in­stru­ment holder.
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion as liability or equity
The fun­da­men­tal principle of IAS 32 is that a financial in­stru­ment should be clas­si­fied as either a financial liability or an equity in­stru­ment according to the substance of the contract, not its legal form, and the de­f­i­n­i­tions of financial liability and equity in­stru­ment. Two ex­cep­tions from this principle are certain puttable in­stru­ments meeting specific criteria and certain oblig­a­tions arising on liq­ui­da­tion (see below). The entity must make the decision at the time the in­stru­ment is initially recog­nised. The clas­si­fi­ca­tion is not sub­se­quently changed based on changed cir­cum­stances. [IAS 32.15]
A financial in­stru­ment is an equity in­stru­ment only if (a) the in­stru­ment includes no con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity and (b) if the in­stru­ment will or may be settled in the issuer's own equity in­stru­ments, it is either:
a non-de­riv­a­tive that includes no con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion for the issuer to deliver a variable number of its own equity in­stru­ments; or
a de­riv­a­tive that will be settled only by the issuer ex­chang­ing a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of its own equity in­stru­ments. [IAS 32.16]
Il­lus­tra­tion – pref­er­ence shares
If an entity issues pref­er­ence (preferred) shares that pay a fixed rate of dividend and that have a mandatory re­demp­tion feature at a future date, the substance is that they are a con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion to deliver cash and, therefore, should be recog­nised as a liability. [IAS 32.18(a)] In contrast, pref­er­ence shares that do not have a fixed maturity, and where the issuer does not have a con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion to make any payment are equity. In this example even though both in­stru­ments are legally termed pref­er­ence shares they have different con­trac­tual terms and one is a financial liability while the other is equity.
Il­lus­tra­tion – issuance of fixed monetary amount of equity in­stru­ments
A con­trac­tual right or oblig­a­tion to receive or deliver a number of its own shares or other equity in­stru­ments that varies so that the fair value of the entity's own equity in­stru­ments to be received or delivered equals the fixed monetary amount of the con­trac­tual right or oblig­a­tion is a financial liability. [IAS 32.20]
Il­lus­tra­tion – one party has a choice over how an in­stru­ment is settled
When a de­riv­a­tive financial in­stru­ment gives one party a choice over how it is settled (for instance, the issuer or the holder can choose set­tle­ment net in cash or by ex­chang­ing shares for cash), it is a financial asset or a financial liability unless all of the set­tle­ment al­ter­na­tives would result in it being an equity in­stru­ment. [IAS 32.26]
Con­tin­gent set­tle­ment pro­vi­sions
If, as a result of con­tin­gent set­tle­ment pro­vi­sions, the issuer does not have an un­con­di­tional right to avoid set­tle­ment by delivery of cash or other financial in­stru­ment (or otherwise to settle in a way that it would be a financial liability) the in­stru­ment is a financial liability of the issuer, unless:
the con­tin­gent set­tle­ment provision is not genuine or
the issuer can only be required to settle the oblig­a­tion in the event of the issuer's liq­ui­da­tion or
the in­stru­ment has all the features and meets the con­di­tions of IAS 32.16A and 16B for puttable in­stru­ments [IAS 32.25]
Puttable in­stru­ments and oblig­a­tions arising on liq­ui­da­tion
In February 2008, the IASB amended IAS 32 and IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments with respect to the balance sheet clas­si­fi­ca­tion of puttable financial in­stru­ments and oblig­a­tions arising only on liq­ui­da­tion. As a result of the amend­ments, some financial in­stru­ments that currently meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a financial liability will be clas­si­fied as equity because they represent the residual interest in the net assets of the entity. [IAS 32.16A-D]
Clas­si­fi­ca­tions of rights issues
In October 2009, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 32 on the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of rights issues. For rights issues offered for a fixed amount of foreign currency current practice appears to require such issues to be accounted for as de­riv­a­tive li­a­bil­i­ties. The amendment states that if such rights are issued pro rata to an entity's all existing share­hold­ers in the same class for a fixed amount of currency, they should be clas­si­fied as equity re­gard­less of the currency in which the exercise price is de­nom­i­nated.
Compound financial in­stru­ments
Some financial in­stru­ments – sometimes called compound in­stru­ments – have both a liability and an equity component from the issuer's per­spec­tive. In that case, IAS 32 requires that the component parts be accounted for and presented sep­a­rately according to their substance based on the de­f­i­n­i­tions of liability and equity. The split is made at issuance and not revised for sub­se­quent changes in market interest rates, share prices, or other event that changes the like­li­hood that the con­ver­sion option will be exercised. [IAS 32.29-30]
To il­lus­trate, a con­vert­ible bond contains two com­po­nents. One is a financial liability, namely the issuer's con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion to pay cash, and the other is an equity in­stru­ment, namely the holder's option to convert into common shares. Another example is debt issued with de­tach­able share purchase warrants.
When the initial carrying amount of a compound financial in­stru­ment is required to be allocated to its equity and liability com­po­nents, the equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from the fair value of the in­stru­ment as a whole the amount sep­a­rately de­ter­mined for the liability component. [IAS 32.32]
Interest, dividends, gains, and losses relating to an in­stru­ment clas­si­fied as a liability should be reported in profit or loss. This means that dividend payments on preferred shares clas­si­fied as li­a­bil­i­ties are treated as expenses. On the other hand, dis­tri­b­u­tions (such as dividends) to holders of a financial in­stru­ment clas­si­fied as equity should be charged directly against equity, not against earnings. [IAS 32.35]
Trans­ac­tion costs of an equity trans­ac­tion are deducted from equity. Trans­ac­tion costs related to an issue of a compound financial in­stru­ment are allocated to the liability and equity com­po­nents in pro­por­tion to the al­lo­ca­tion of proceeds.
Treasury shares
The cost of an entity's own equity in­stru­ments that it has reac­quired ('treasury shares') is deducted from equity. Gain or loss is not recog­nised on the purchase, sale, issue, or can­cel­la­tion of treasury shares. Treasury shares may be acquired and held by the entity or by other members of the con­sol­i­dated group. Con­sid­er­a­tion paid or received is recog­nised directly in equity. [IAS 32.33]
Off­set­ting
IAS 32 also pre­scribes rules for the off­set­ting of financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties. It specifies that a financial asset and a financial liability should be offset and the net amount reported when, and only when, an entity: [IAS 32.42]
has a legally en­force­able right to set off the amounts; and
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability si­mul­ta­ne­ously. [IAS 32.48]
Costs of issuing or reac­quir­ing equity in­stru­ments
Costs of issuing or reac­quir­ing equity in­stru­ments are accounted for as a deduction from equity, net of any related income tax benefit. [IAS 32.35]
Dis­clo­sures
Financial in­stru­ments dis­clo­sures are in IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures, and no longer in IAS 32.
The dis­clo­sures relating to treasury shares are in IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments and IAS 24 Related Parties for share re­pur­chases from related parties. [IAS 32.34 and 39]
IAS 33 — Earnings Per Share
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 33 Earnings Per Share sets out how to calculate both basic earnings per share (EPS) and diluted EPS. The cal­cu­la­tion of Basic EPS is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares out­stand­ing during the period, whereas diluted EPS also includes dilutive potential ordinary shares (such as options and con­vert­ible in­stru­ments) if they meet certain criteria.
IAS 33 was reissued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IAS 33
January 1996 Exposure Draft E33 Earnings Per Share
February 1997 IAS 33 Earnings Per Share
1 January 1999 Effective date of IAS 33 (1997)
18 December 2003 Revised version of IAS 33 issued by the IASB
1 January 2005 Effective date of IAS 33 (Revised 2003)
7 August 2008 IASB proposes to amend IAS 33. Click for Press Release (PDF 48k).
1 January 2009 Effective date of con­se­quen­tial amend­ments arising from IAS 1 (2007)
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IAS 33 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-24 Earnings Per Share – Financial In­stru­ments and Other Contracts that May Be Settled in Shares
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Per­for­mance Reporting
Earnings Per Share
Summary of IAS 33
Objective of IAS 33
The objective of IAS 33 is to prescribe prin­ci­ples for de­ter­min­ing and pre­sent­ing earnings per share (EPS) amounts to improve per­for­mance com­par­isons between different entities in the same reporting period and between different reporting periods for the same entity. [IAS 33.1]
Scope
IAS 33 applies to entities whose se­cu­ri­ties are publicly traded or that are in the process of issuing se­cu­ri­ties to the public. [IAS 33.2] Other entities that choose to present EPS in­for­ma­tion must also comply with IAS 33. [IAS 33.3]
If both parent and con­sol­i­dated state­ments are presented in a single report, EPS is required only for the con­sol­i­dated state­ments. [IAS 33.4]
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 33.5]
Ordinary share: also known as a common share or common stock. An equity in­stru­ment that is sub­or­di­nate to all other classes of equity in­stru­ments.
Potential ordinary share: a financial in­stru­ment or other contract that may entitle its holder to ordinary shares.
  Common examples of potential ordinary shares
con­vert­ible debt
con­vert­ible preferred shares
share warrants
share options
share rights
employee stock purchase plans
con­trac­tual rights to purchase shares
con­tin­gent issuance contracts or agree­ments (such as those arising in business com­bi­na­tion)
  Dilution: a reduction in earnings per share or an increase in loss per share resulting from the as­sump­tion that con­vert­ible in­stru­ments are converted, that options or warrants are exercised, or that ordinary shares are issued upon the sat­is­fac­tion of specified con­di­tions.
An­tidi­lu­tion: an increase in earnings per share or a reduction in loss per share resulting from the as­sump­tion that con­vert­ible in­stru­ments are converted, that options or warrants are exercised, or that ordinary shares are issued upon the sat­is­fac­tion of specified con­di­tions.
Re­quire­ment to present EPS
An entity whose se­cu­ri­ties are publicly traded (or that is in process of public issuance) must present, on the face of the statement of com­pre­hen­sive income, basic and diluted EPS for: [IAS 33.66]
profit or loss from con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions at­trib­ut­able to the ordinary equity holders of the parent entity; and
profit or loss at­trib­ut­able to the ordinary equity holders of the parent entity for the period for each class of ordinary shares that has a different right to share in profit for the period.
If an entity presents the com­po­nents of profit or loss in a separate income statement, it presents EPS only in that separate statement. [IAS 33.4A]
Basic and diluted EPS must be presented with equal promi­nence for all periods presented. [IAS 33.66]
Basic and diluted EPS must be presented even if the amounts are negative (that is, a loss per share). [IAS 33.69]
If an entity reports a dis­con­tin­ued operation, basic and diluted amounts per share must be disclosed for the dis­con­tin­ued operation either on the face of the of com­pre­hen­sive income (or separate income statement if presented) or in the notes to the financial state­ments. [IAS 33.68 and 68A]
Basic EPS
Basic EPS is cal­cu­lated by dividing profit or loss at­trib­ut­able to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity (the numerator) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares out­stand­ing (the de­nom­i­na­tor) during the period. [IAS 33.10]
The earnings nu­mer­a­tors (profit or loss from con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions and net profit or loss) used for the cal­cu­la­tion should be after deducting all expenses including taxes, minority interests, and pref­er­ence dividends. [IAS 33.12]
The de­nom­i­na­tor (number of shares) is cal­cu­lated by adjusting the shares in issue at the beginning of the period by the number of shares bought back or issued during the period, mul­ti­plied by a time-weight­ing factor. IAS 33 includes guidance on ap­pro­pri­ate recog­ni­tion dates for shares issued in various cir­cum­stances. [IAS 33.20-21]
Con­tin­gently issuable shares are included in the basic EPS de­nom­i­na­tor when the con­tin­gency has been met. [IAS 33.24]
Diluted EPS
Diluted EPS is cal­cu­lated by adjusting the earnings and number of shares for the effects of dilutive options and other dilutive potential ordinary shares. [IAS 33.31] The effects of anti-di­lu­tive potential ordinary shares are ignored in cal­cu­lat­ing diluted EPS. [IAS 33.41]
  Guidance on cal­cu­lat­ing dilution
Con­vert­ible se­cu­ri­ties. The numerator should be adjusted for the after-tax effects of dividends and interest charged in relation to dilutive potential ordinary shares and for any other changes in income that would result from the con­ver­sion of the potential ordinary shares. [IAS 33.33] The de­nom­i­na­tor should include shares that would be issued on the con­ver­sion. [IAS 33.36]
Options and warrants. In cal­cu­lat­ing diluted EPS, assume the exercise of out­stand­ing dilutive options and warrants. The assumed proceeds from exercise should be regarded as having been used to re­pur­chase ordinary shares at the average market price during the period. The dif­fer­ence between the number of ordinary shares assumed issued on exercise and the number of ordinary shares assumed re­pur­chased shall be treated as an issue of ordinary shares for no con­sid­er­a­tion. [IAS 33.45]
Con­tin­gently issuable shares. Con­tin­gently issuable ordinary shares are treated as out­stand­ing and included in the cal­cu­la­tion of both basic and diluted EPS if the con­di­tions have been met. If the con­di­tions have not been met, the number of con­tin­gently issuable shares included in the diluted EPS cal­cu­la­tion is based on the number of shares that would be issuable if the end of the period were the end of the con­tin­gency period. Re­state­ment is not permitted if the con­di­tions are not met when the con­tin­gency period expires. [IAS 33.52]
Contracts that may be settled in ordinary shares or cash. Presume that the contract will be settled in ordinary shares, and include the resulting potential ordinary shares in diluted EPS if the effect is dilutive. [IAS 33.58]
  Ret­ro­spec­tive ad­just­ments
The cal­cu­la­tion of basic and diluted EPS for all periods presented is adjusted ret­ro­spec­tively when the number of ordinary or potential ordinary shares out­stand­ing increases as a result of a cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion, bonus issue, or share split, or decreases as a result of a reverse share split. If such changes occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial state­ments are au­tho­rised for issue, the EPS cal­cu­la­tions for those and any prior period financial state­ments presented are based on the new number of shares. Dis­clo­sure is required. [IAS 33.64]
Basic and diluted EPS are also adjusted for the effects of errors and ad­just­ments resulting from changes in accounting policies, accounted for ret­ro­spec­tively. [IAS 33.64]
Diluted EPS for prior periods should not be adjusted for changes in the as­sump­tions used or for the con­ver­sion of potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares out­stand­ing. [IAS 33.65]
Dis­clo­sure
If EPS is presented, the following dis­clo­sures are required: [IAS 33.70]
the amounts used as the nu­mer­a­tors in cal­cu­lat­ing basic and diluted EPS, and a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of those amounts to profit or loss at­trib­ut­able to the parent entity for the period
the weighted average number of ordinary shares used as the de­nom­i­na­tor in cal­cu­lat­ing basic and diluted EPS, and a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of these de­nom­i­na­tors to each other
in­stru­ments (including con­tin­gently issuable shares) that could po­ten­tially dilute basic EPS in the future, but were not included in the cal­cu­la­tion of diluted EPS because they are an­tidi­lu­tive for the period(s) presented
a de­scrip­tion of those ordinary share trans­ac­tions or potential ordinary share trans­ac­tions that occur after the balance sheet date and that would have changed sig­nif­i­cantly the number of ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares out­stand­ing at the end of the period if those trans­ac­tions had occurred before the end of the reporting period. Examples include issues and re­demp­tions of ordinary shares issued for cash, warrants and options, con­ver­sions, and exercises [IAS 34.71]
An entity is permitted to disclose amounts per share other than profit or loss from con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions, dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions, and net profit or loss earnings per share. Guidance for cal­cu­lat­ing and pre­sent­ing such amounts is included in IAS 33.73 and 73A.
IAS 34 — Interim Financial Reporting
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting applies when an entity prepares an interim financial report, without mandating when an entity should prepare such a report. Per­mit­ting less in­for­ma­tion to be reported than in annual financial state­ments (on the basis of providing an update to those financial state­ments), the standard outlines the recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment and dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments for interim reports.
IAS 34 was issued in June 1998 and is operative for periods beginning on or after 1 January 1999.
History of IAS 34
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
August 1997 Exposure Draft E57 Interim Financial Reporting published
June 1999 IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1999
6 May 2010 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010 (sig­nif­i­cant trans­ac­tions and events) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011
17 May 2012 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments 2009-2011 Cycle (segment in­for­ma­tion) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
25 September 2014 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2014 (dis­clo­sure of in­for­ma­tion 'elsewhere in the interim financial report') Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Im­pair­ment
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion
None
Summary of IAS 34
Deloitte's pub­li­ca­tion Interim Financial Reporting: A Guide to IAS 34 (2009 edition) provides an overview of IAS 34, ap­pli­ca­tion guidance and examples, a model interim financial report, and an IAS 34 com­pli­ance checklist. Contents:
1. In­tro­duc­tion and scope
2. Content of an interim financial report
3. Condensed or complete interim financial state­ments
4. Selected ex­plana­tory notes
5. Accounting policies for interim reporting
6. General prin­ci­ples for recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment
7. Applying the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment prin­ci­ples
8. Im­pair­ment of assets
9. Measuring interim income tax expense
10. Earnings per share
11. First-time adoption of IFRSs
Model interim financial report
IAS 34 com­pli­ance checklist
Click to Download the Deloitte Guide to IAS 34 (PDF 1,205k, March 2009, 76 pages).
Objective of IAS 34
The objective of IAS 34 is to prescribe the minimum content of an interim financial report and to prescribe the prin­ci­ples for recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment in financial state­ments presented for an interim period.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
Interim period: a financial reporting period shorter than a full financial year (most typically a quarter or half-year). [IAS 34.4]
Interim financial report: a financial report that contains either a complete or condensed set of financial state­ments for an interim period. [IAS 34.4]
Matters left to local reg­u­la­tors
IAS 34 specifies the content of an interim financial report that is described as con­form­ing to International Financial Reporting Standards. However, IAS 34 does not mandate:
which entities should publish interim financial reports,
how fre­quently, or
how soon after the end of an interim period.
Such matters will be decided by national gov­ern­ments, se­cu­ri­ties reg­u­la­tors, stock exchanges, and ac­coun­tancy bodies. [IAS 34.1]
However, the Standard en­cour­ages pub­licly-traded entities to provide interim financial reports that conform to the recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment, and dis­clo­sure prin­ci­ples set out in IAS 34, at least as of the end of the first half of their financial year, such reports to be made available not later than 60 days after the end of the interim period. [IAS 34.1]
Minimum content of an interim financial report
The minimum com­po­nents specified for an interim financial report are: [IAS 34.8]
a condensed balance sheet (statement of financial position)
either (a) a condensed statement of com­pre­hen­sive income or (b) a condensed statement of com­pre­hen­sive income and a condensed income statement
a condensed statement of changes in equity
a condensed statement of cash flows
selected ex­plana­tory notes
If a complete set of financial state­ments is published in the interim report, those financial state­ments should be in full com­pli­ance with IFRSs. [IAS 34.9]
If the financial state­ments are condensed, they should include, at a minimum, each of the headings and sub-to­tals included in the most recent annual financial state­ments and the ex­plana­tory notes required by IAS 34. Ad­di­tional line-items or notes should be included if their omission would make the interim financial in­for­ma­tion mis­lead­ing. [IAS 34.10]
If the annual financial state­ments were con­sol­i­dated (group) state­ments, the interim state­ments should be group state­ments as well. [IAS 34.14]
The periods to be covered by the interim financial state­ments are as follows: [IAS 34.20]
balance sheet (statement of financial position) as of the end of the current interim period and a com­par­a­tive balance sheet as of the end of the im­me­di­ately preceding financial year
statement of com­pre­hen­sive income (and income statement, if presented) for the current interim period and cu­mu­la­tively for the current financial year to date, with com­par­a­tive state­ments for the com­pa­ra­ble interim periods (current and year-to-date) of the im­me­di­ately preceding financial year
statement of changes in equity cu­mu­la­tively for the current financial year to date, with a com­par­a­tive statement for the com­pa­ra­ble year-to-date period of the im­me­di­ately preceding financial year
statement of cash flows cu­mu­la­tively for the current financial year to date, with a com­par­a­tive statement for the com­pa­ra­ble year-to-date period of the im­me­di­ately preceding financial year
If the company's business is highly seasonal, IAS 34 en­cour­ages dis­clo­sure of financial in­for­ma­tion for the latest 12 months, and com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion for the prior 12-month period, in addition to the interim period financial state­ments. [IAS 34.21]
Note dis­clo­sures
The ex­plana­tory notes required are designed to provide an ex­pla­na­tion of events and trans­ac­tions that are sig­nif­i­cant to an un­der­stand­ing of the changes in financial position and per­for­mance of the entity since the last annual reporting date. IAS 34 states a pre­sump­tion that anyone who reads an entity's interim report will also have access to its most recent annual report. Con­se­quently, IAS 34 avoids repeating annual dis­clo­sures in interim condensed reports. [IAS 34.15]
  Examples of specific dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments of IAS 34
Examples of events and trans­ac­tions for which dis­clo­sures are required if they are sig­nif­i­cant [IAS 34.15A-15B]
write-down of in­ven­to­ries
recog­ni­tion or reversal of an im­pair­ment loss
reversal of provision for the costs of re­struc­tur­ing
ac­qui­si­tions and disposals of property, plant and equipment
com­mit­ments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment
lit­i­ga­tion set­tle­ments
cor­rec­tions of prior period errors
changes in business or economic cir­cum­stances affecting the fair value of financial assets and li­a­bil­i­ties
un­reme­died loan defaults and breaches of loan agree­ments
transfers between levels of the 'fair value hierarchy' or changes in the clas­si­fi­ca­tion of financial assets
changes in con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties and con­tin­gent assets.
Examples of other dis­clo­sures required [IAS 34.16A]
changes in accounting policies
ex­pla­na­tion of any sea­son­al­ity or cycli­cal­ity of interim op­er­a­tions
unusual items affecting assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, equity, net income or cash flows
changes in estimates
issues, re­pur­chases and repayment of debt and equity se­cu­ri­ties
dividends paid
par­tic­u­lar segment in­for­ma­tion (where IFRS 8 Operating Segments applies to the entity)
events after the end of the reporting period
changes in the com­po­si­tion of the entity, such as business com­bi­na­tions, obtaining or losing control of sub­sidiaries, re­struc­tur­ings and dis­con­tin­ued op­er­a­tions
dis­clo­sures about the fair value of financial in­stru­ments
  Accounting policies
The same accounting policies should be applied for interim reporting as are applied in the entity's annual financial state­ments, except for accounting policy changes made after the date of the most recent annual financial state­ments that are to be reflected in the next annual financial state­ments. [IAS 34.28]
A key provision of IAS 34 is that an entity should use the same accounting policy through­out a single financial year. If a decision is made to change a policy mid-year, the change is im­ple­mented ret­ro­spec­tively, and pre­vi­ously reported interim data is restated. [IAS 34.43]
Mea­sure­ment
Mea­sure­ments for interim reporting purposes should be made on a year-to-date basis, so that the frequency of the entity's reporting does not affect the mea­sure­ment of its annual results. [IAS 34.28]
Several important mea­sure­ment points:
Revenues that are received sea­son­ally, cycli­cally or oc­ca­sion­ally within a financial year should not be an­tic­i­pated or deferred as of the interim date, if an­tic­i­pa­tion or deferral would not be ap­pro­pri­ate at the end of the financial year. [IAS 34.37]
Costs that are incurred unevenly during a financial year should be an­tic­i­pated or deferred for interim reporting purposes if, and only if, it is also ap­pro­pri­ate to an­tic­i­pate or defer that type of cost at the end of the financial year. [IAS 34.39]
Income tax expense should be recog­nised based on the best estimate of the weighted average annual effective income tax rate expected for the full financial year. [IAS 34 Appendix B12]
An appendix to IAS 34 provides guidance for applying the basic recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment prin­ci­ples at interim dates to various types of asset, liability, income, and expense.
Ma­te­ri­al­ity
In deciding how to recognise, measure, classify, or disclose an item for interim financial reporting purposes, ma­te­ri­al­ity is to be assessed in relation to the interim period financial data, not forecast annual data. [IAS 34.23]
Dis­clo­sure in annual financial state­ments
If an estimate of an amount reported in an interim period is changed sig­nif­i­cantly during the financial interim period in the financial year but a separate financial report is not published for that period, the nature and amount of that change must be disclosed in the notes to the annual financial state­ments. [IAS 34.26]
IAS 35 — Discontinuing Operations (Superseded)
Quick Article Links
History of IAS 35
August 1997 Exposure Draft E58 Dis­con­tin­u­ing Op­er­a­tions
June 1998 IAS 35 Dis­con­tin­u­ing Op­er­a­tions
1 July 1999 Effective date of IAS 35 (1998)
31 March 2004 IAS 35 is su­per­seded by IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions effective 1 January 2005
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Summary of IAS 35
Objective of IAS 35
The objective of IAS 35 is to establish prin­ci­ples for reporting in­for­ma­tion about dis­con­tin­u­ing ac­tiv­i­ties (as defined), thereby enhancing the ability of users of financial state­ments to make pro­jec­tions of an en­ter­prise's cash flows, earn­ings-gen­er­at­ing capacity and financial position, by seg­re­gat­ing in­for­ma­tion about dis­con­tin­u­ing ac­tiv­i­ties from in­for­ma­tion about con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions. The Standard does not establish any recog­ni­tion or mea­sure­ment prin­ci­ples in relation to dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions – these are dealt with under other IAS. In par­tic­u­lar, IAS 35 provides guidance on how to apply IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets and IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets to a dis­con­tin­u­ing operation. [IAS 35.17-19]
Dis­con­tin­u­ing operation defined
Dis­con­tin­u­ing operation: A rel­a­tively large component of a business en­ter­prise – such as a business or ge­o­graph­i­cal segment under IAS 14 Segment Reporting – that the en­ter­prise, pursuant to a single plan, either is disposing of sub­stan­tially in its entirety or is ter­mi­nat­ing through aban­don­ment or piecemeal sale. [IAS 35.2] A re­struc­tur­ing, trans­ac­tion or event that does not meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a dis­con­tin­u­ing operation should not be called a dis­con­tin­u­ing operation. [IAS 35.43]
When to disclose
Dis­clo­sures begin after the earlier of the following:
the company has entered into an agreement to sell sub­stan­tially all of the assets of the dis­con­tin­u­ing operation; or
its board of directors or other similar governing body has both approved and announced the planned dis­con­tin­u­ance. [IAS 35.16]
The dis­clo­sures are required if a plan for disposal is both approved and publicly announced after the end of the financial reporting period but before the financial state­ments for that period are approved. A board decision after year-end, by itself, is not enough. [IAS 35.29]
What to disclose
The following must be disclosed: [IAS 35.27 and IAS 35.31]
a de­scrip­tion of the dis­con­tin­u­ing operation;
the business or ge­o­graph­i­cal segment(s) in which it is reported in ac­cor­dance with IAS 14;
the date that the plan for dis­con­tin­u­ance was announced;
the timing of expected com­ple­tion, if known or de­ter­minable;
the carrying amounts of the total assets and the total li­a­bil­i­ties to be disposed of;
the amounts of revenue, expenses, and pre-tax operating profit or loss at­trib­ut­able to the dis­con­tin­u­ing operation, and (sep­a­rately) related income tax expense;
the amount of gain or loss recog­nised on the disposal of assets or set­tle­ment of li­a­bil­i­ties at­trib­ut­able to the dis­con­tin­u­ing operation, and related income tax expense;
the net cash flows at­trib­ut­able to the operating, investing, and financing ac­tiv­i­ties of the dis­con­tin­u­ing operation; and
the net selling prices received or expected from the sale of those net assets for which the en­ter­prise has entered into one or more binding sale agree­ments, and the expected timing thereof, and the carrying amounts of those net assets.
How to disclose
The dis­clo­sures may be, but need not be, shown on the face of the financial state­ments. Only the gain or loss on actual disposal of assets and set­tle­ment of li­a­bil­i­ties must be on the face of the income statement. [IAS 35.39] IAS 35 does not prescribe a par­tic­u­lar format for the dis­clo­sures. Among the ac­cept­able ways:
Separate columns in the financial state­ments for con­tin­u­ing and dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions
One column but separate sections (with subtotals) for con­tin­u­ing and dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions within that single column
One or more separate line items for dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions on the face of the financial state­ments with detailed dis­clo­sures about dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions in the notes (but the line-item dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments of IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments must still be met).
In periods after the dis­con­tin­u­ance is first approved and announced, and before it is completed, the financial state­ments must update the prior dis­clo­sures, including a de­scrip­tion of any sig­nif­i­cant changes in the amount or timing of cash flows relating to the assets and li­a­bil­i­ties to be disposed of or settled and the causes of those changes. [IAS 35.33]
The dis­clo­sures continue until com­ple­tion of the disposal, though there may be cash payments still to come. [IAS 35.35-36]
Com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion presented in financial state­ments prepared after initial dis­clo­sure must be restated to segregate the con­tin­u­ing and dis­con­tin­u­ing assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, income, expenses, and cash flows. This helps in trend analysis and fore­cast­ing. [IAS 35.45]
IAS 35 applies to only to those corporate re­struc­tur­ings that meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a dis­con­tin­u­ing operation. But many so-called re­struc­tur­ings are of a smaller scope than an IAS 35 dis­con­tin­u­ing operation, such as plant closings, product dis­con­tin­u­ances, and sales of sub­sidiaries while the company remains in the same line of business. IAS 37 on pro­vi­sions specifies the accounting and dis­clo­sures for re­struc­tur­ings.
The specified dis­clo­sures are required to be presented sep­a­rately for each dis­con­tin­u­ing operation. [IAS 35.38]
Income and expenses relating to dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions should not be presented as ex­tra­or­di­nary items. [IAS 35.41]
Notes to an interim financial report should disclose in­for­ma­tion about dis­con­tin­u­ing op­er­a­tions. [IAS 35.47]
IAS 36 — Impairment of Assets
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets seeks to ensure that an entity's assets are not carried at more than their re­cov­er­able amount (i.e. the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use). With the exception of goodwill and certain in­tan­gi­ble assets for which an annual im­pair­ment test is required, entities are required to conduct im­pair­ment tests where there is an in­di­ca­tion of im­pair­ment of an asset, and the test may be conducted for a 'cash-gen­er­at­ing unit' where an asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely in­de­pen­dent of those from other assets.
IAS 36 was reissued in March 2004 and applies to goodwill and in­tan­gi­ble assets acquired in business com­bi­na­tions for which the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004, and for all other assets prospec­tively from the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 31 March 2004.
History of IAS 36
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
May 1997 Exposure Draft E55 Im­pair­ment of Assets
June 1998 IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 July 1999
31 March 2004 IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets revised Applies to goodwill and in­tan­gi­ble assets acquired in business com­bi­na­tions for which the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004, and for all other assets prospec­tively from the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 31 March 2004
22 May 2008 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 (dis­clo­sure of estimates used to determine a re­cov­er­able amount) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
16 April 2009 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009 (units of accounting for goodwill im­pair­ment testing using segments under IFRS 8 before ag­gre­ga­tion) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
29 May 2013 Amended by Re­cov­er­able Amount Dis­clo­sures for Non-Fi­nan­cial Assets (clar­i­fi­ca­tion of dis­clo­sures required) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Goodwill and im­pair­ment
IFRS 13 — Unit of account
Summary of IAS 36
Objective of IAS 36
To ensure that assets are carried at no more than their re­cov­er­able amount, and to define how re­cov­er­able amount is de­ter­mined.
Scope
IAS 36 applies to all assets except: [IAS 36.2]
in­ven­to­ries (see IAS 2)
assets arising from con­struc­tion contracts (see IAS 11)
deferred tax assets (see IAS 12)
assets arising from employee benefits (see IAS 19)
financial assets (see IAS 39)
in­vest­ment property carried at fair value (see IAS 40)
agri­cul­tural assets carried at fair value (see IAS 41)
insurance contract assets (see IFRS 4)
non-cur­rent assets held for sale (see IFRS 5)
Therefore, IAS 36 applies to (among other assets):
land
buildings
machinery and equipment
in­vest­ment property carried at cost
in­tan­gi­ble assets
goodwill
in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates, and joint ventures carried at cost
assets carried at revalued amounts under IAS 16 and IAS 38
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 36.6]
Im­pair­ment loss: the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset or cash-gen­er­at­ing unit exceeds its re­cov­er­able amount
Carrying amount: the amount at which an asset is recog­nised in the balance sheet after deducting ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion and ac­cu­mu­lated im­pair­ment losses
Re­cov­er­able amount: the higher of an asset's fair value less costs of disposal* (sometimes called net selling price) and its value in use
* Prior to con­se­quen­tial amend­ments made by IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment, this was referred to as 'fair value less costs to sell'.
Fair value: the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly trans­ac­tion between market par­tic­i­pants at the mea­sure­ment date (see IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment)
Value in use: the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-gen­er­at­ing unit
Iden­ti­fy­ing an asset that may be impaired
At the end of each reporting period, an entity is required to assess whether there is any in­di­ca­tion that an asset may be impaired (i.e. its carrying amount may be higher than its re­cov­er­able amount). IAS 36 has a list of external and internal in­di­ca­tors of im­pair­ment. If there is an in­di­ca­tion that an asset may be impaired, then the asset's re­cov­er­able amount must be cal­cu­lated. [IAS 36.9]
The re­cov­er­able amounts of the following types of in­tan­gi­ble assets are measured annually whether or not there is any in­di­ca­tion that it may be impaired. In some cases, the most recent detailed cal­cu­la­tion of re­cov­er­able amount made in a preceding period may be used in the im­pair­ment test for that asset in the current period: [IAS 36.10]
an in­tan­gi­ble asset with an in­def­i­nite useful life
an in­tan­gi­ble asset not yet available for use
goodwill acquired in a business com­bi­na­tion
In­di­ca­tions of im­pair­ment [IAS 36.12]
External sources:
market value declines
negative changes in tech­nol­ogy, markets, economy, or laws
increases in market interest rates
net assets of the company higher than market cap­i­tal­i­sa­tion
Internal sources:
ob­so­les­cence or physical damage
asset is idle, part of a re­struc­tur­ing or held for disposal
worse economic per­for­mance than expected
for in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, joint ventures or as­so­ci­ates, the carrying amount is higher than the carrying amount of the investee's assets, or a dividend exceeds the total com­pre­hen­sive income of the investee
These lists are not intended to be ex­haus­tive. [IAS 36.13] Further, an in­di­ca­tion that an asset may be impaired may indicate that the asset's useful life, de­pre­ci­a­tion method, or residual value may need to be reviewed and adjusted. [IAS 36.17]
De­ter­min­ing re­cov­er­able amount
If fair value less costs of disposal or value in use is more than carrying amount, it is not necessary to calculate the other amount. The asset is not impaired. [IAS 36.19]
If fair value less costs of disposal cannot be de­ter­mined, then re­cov­er­able amount is value in use. [IAS 36.20]
For assets to be disposed of, re­cov­er­able amount is fair value less costs of disposal. [IAS 36.21]
Fair value less costs of disposal
Fair value is de­ter­mined in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment
Costs of disposal are the direct added costs only (not existing costs or overhead). [IAS 36.28]
Value in use
The cal­cu­la­tion of value in use should reflect the following elements: [IAS 36.30]
an estimate of the future cash flows the entity expects to derive from the asset
ex­pec­ta­tions about possible vari­a­tions in the amount or timing of those future cash flows
the time value of money, rep­re­sented by the current market risk-free rate of interest
the price for bearing the un­cer­tainty inherent in the asset
other factors, such as illiq­uid­ity, that market par­tic­i­pants would reflect in pricing the future cash flows the entity expects to derive from the asset
Cash flow pro­jec­tions should be based on rea­son­able and sup­port­able as­sump­tions, the most recent budgets and forecasts, and ex­trap­o­la­tion for periods beyond budgeted pro­jec­tions. [IAS 36.33] IAS 36 presumes that budgets and forecasts should not go beyond five years; for periods after five years, ex­trap­o­late from the earlier budgets. [IAS 36.35] Man­age­ment should assess the rea­son­able­ness of its as­sump­tions by examining the causes of dif­fer­ences between past cash flow pro­jec­tions and actual cash flows. [IAS 36.34]
Cash flow pro­jec­tions should relate to the asset in its current condition – future re­struc­tur­ings to which the entity is not committed and ex­pen­di­tures to improve or enhance the asset's per­for­mance should not be an­tic­i­pated. [IAS 36.44]
Estimates of future cash flows should not include cash inflows or outflows from financing ac­tiv­i­ties, or income tax receipts or payments. [IAS 36.50]
Discount rate
In measuring value in use, the discount rate used should be the pre-tax rate that reflects current market as­sess­ments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. [IAS 36.55]
The discount rate should not reflect risks for which future cash flows have been adjusted and should equal the rate of return that investors would require if they were to choose an in­vest­ment that would generate cash flows equiv­a­lent to those expected from the asset. [IAS 36.56]
For im­pair­ment of an in­di­vid­ual asset or portfolio of assets, the discount rate is the rate the entity would pay in a current market trans­ac­tion to borrow money to buy that specific asset or portfolio.
If a mar­ket-de­ter­mined as­set-spe­cific rate is not available, a surrogate must be used that reflects the time value of money over the asset's life as well as country risk, currency risk, price risk, and cash flow risk. The following would normally be con­sid­ered: [IAS 36.57]
the entity's own weighted average cost of capital
the entity's in­cre­men­tal borrowing rate
other market borrowing rates.
Recog­ni­tion of an im­pair­ment loss
An im­pair­ment loss is recog­nised whenever re­cov­er­able amount is below carrying amount. [IAS 36.59]
The im­pair­ment loss is recog­nised as an expense (unless it relates to a revalued asset where the im­pair­ment loss is treated as a reval­u­a­tion decrease). [IAS 36.60]
Adjust de­pre­ci­a­tion for future periods. [IAS 36.63]
Cash-gen­er­at­ing units
Re­cov­er­able amount should be de­ter­mined for the in­di­vid­ual asset, if possible. [IAS 36.66]
If it is not possible to determine the re­cov­er­able amount (i.e. the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use) for the in­di­vid­ual asset, then determine re­cov­er­able amount for the asset's cash-gen­er­at­ing unit (CGU). [IAS 36.66] The CGU is the smallest iden­ti­fi­able group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely in­de­pen­dent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. [IAS 36.6]
Im­pair­ment of goodwill
Goodwill should be tested for im­pair­ment annually. [IAS 36.96]
To test for im­pair­ment, goodwill must be allocated to each of the acquirer's cash-gen­er­at­ing units, or groups of cash-gen­er­at­ing units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the com­bi­na­tion, ir­re­spec­tive of whether other assets or li­a­bil­i­ties of the acquiree are assigned to those units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is so allocated shall: [IAS 36.80]
represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal man­age­ment purposes; and
not be larger than an operating segment de­ter­mined in ac­cor­dance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
A cash-gen­er­at­ing unit to which goodwill has been allocated shall be tested for im­pair­ment at least annually by comparing the carrying amount of the unit, including the goodwill, with the re­cov­er­able amount of the unit: [IAS 36.90]
If the re­cov­er­able amount of the unit exceeds the carrying amount of the unit, the unit and the goodwill allocated to that unit is not impaired
If the carrying amount of the unit exceeds the re­cov­er­able amount of the unit, the entity must recognise an im­pair­ment loss.
The im­pair­ment loss is allocated to reduce the carrying amount of the assets of the unit (group of units) in the following order: [IAS 36.104]
first, reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-gen­er­at­ing unit (group of units); and
then, reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets of the unit (group of units) pro rata on the basis.
The carrying amount of an asset should not be reduced below the highest of: [IAS 36.105]
its fair value less costs of disposal (if mea­sur­able)
its value in use (if mea­sur­able)
zero.
If the preceding rule is applied, further al­lo­ca­tion of the im­pair­ment loss is made pro rata to the other assets of the unit (group of units).
Reversal of an im­pair­ment loss
Same approach as for the iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of impaired assets: assess at each balance sheet date whether there is an in­di­ca­tion that an im­pair­ment loss may have decreased. If so, calculate re­cov­er­able amount. [IAS 36.110]
No reversal for unwinding of discount. [IAS 36.116]
The increased carrying amount due to reversal should not be more than what the de­pre­ci­ated his­tor­i­cal cost would have been if the im­pair­ment had not been recog­nised. [IAS 36.117]
Reversal of an im­pair­ment loss is recog­nised in the profit or loss unless it relates to a revalued asset [IAS 36.119]
Adjust de­pre­ci­a­tion for future periods. [IAS 36.121]
Reversal of an im­pair­ment loss for goodwill is pro­hib­ited. [IAS 36.124]
Dis­clo­sure
Dis­clo­sure by class of assets: [IAS 36.126]
im­pair­ment losses recog­nised in profit or loss
im­pair­ment losses reversed in profit or loss
which line item(s) of the statement of com­pre­hen­sive income
im­pair­ment losses on revalued assets recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income
im­pair­ment losses on revalued assets reversed in other com­pre­hen­sive income
Dis­clo­sure by re­portable segment: [IAS 36.129]
im­pair­ment losses recog­nised
im­pair­ment losses reversed
Other dis­clo­sures:
If an in­di­vid­ual im­pair­ment loss (reversal) is material disclose: [IAS 36.130]
events and cir­cum­stances resulting in the im­pair­ment loss
amount of the loss or reversal
in­di­vid­ual asset: nature and segment to which it relates
cash gen­er­at­ing unit: de­scrip­tion, amount of im­pair­ment loss (reversal) by class of assets and segment
if re­cov­er­able amount is fair value less costs of disposal, the level of the fair value hierarchy (from IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment) within which the fair value mea­sure­ment is cat­e­gorised, the valuation tech­niques used to measure fair value less costs of disposal and the key as­sump­tions used in the mea­sure­ment of fair value mea­sure­ments cat­e­gorised within 'Level 2' and 'Level 3' of the fair value hierarchy*
if re­cov­er­able amount has been de­ter­mined on the basis of value in use, or on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal using a present value technique*, disclose the discount rate
* Amend­ments in­tro­duced by Re­cov­er­able Amount Dis­clo­sures for Non-Fi­nan­cial Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
If im­pair­ment losses recog­nised (reversed) are material in aggregate to the financial state­ments as a whole, disclose: [IAS 36.131]
main classes of assets affected
main events and cir­cum­stances
Disclose detailed in­for­ma­tion about the estimates used to measure re­cov­er­able amounts of cash gen­er­at­ing units con­tain­ing goodwill or in­tan­gi­ble assets with in­def­i­nite useful lives. [IAS 36.134-35]
IAS 37 — Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets outlines the accounting for pro­vi­sions (li­a­bil­i­ties of uncertain timing or amount), together with con­tin­gent assets (possible assets) and con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties (possible oblig­a­tions and present oblig­a­tions that are not probable or not reliably mea­sur­able). Pro­vi­sions are measured at the best estimate (including risks and un­cer­tain­ties) of the ex­pen­di­ture required to settle the present oblig­a­tion, and reflects the present value of ex­pen­di­tures required to settle the oblig­a­tion where the time value of money is material.
IAS 37 was issued in September 1998 and is operative for periods beginning on or after 1 July 1999.
History of IAS 37
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
August 1997 Exposure Draft E59 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets published
September 1998 IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets issued Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 July 1999
30 June 2005 Exposure Draft Amend­ments to IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets and IAS 19 Employee Benefits published Comment deadline 28 October 2005 (proposals were not finalised, instead being re­con­sid­ered as a longer term research project)
14 May 2020 Amended by Onerous Contracts — Cost of Ful­fill­ing a Contract (Amend­ments to IAS 37) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 1 Changes in Existing De­com­mis­sion­ing, Restora­tion and Similar Li­a­bil­i­ties
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from De­com­mis­sion­ing, Restora­tion and En­vi­ron­men­tal Funds
IFRIC 6 Li­a­bil­i­ties Arising from Par­tic­i­pat­ing in a Specific Market – Waste Elec­tri­cal and Elec­tronic Equipment
IFRIC 17 Dis­tri­b­u­tions of Non-cash Assets to Owners
IFRIC 21 Levies
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Research project — Non-fi­nan­cial li­a­bil­i­ties
Summary of IAS 37
Objective
The objective of IAS 37 is to ensure that ap­pro­pri­ate recog­ni­tion criteria and mea­sure­ment bases are applied to pro­vi­sions, con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties and con­tin­gent assets and that suf­fi­cient in­for­ma­tion is disclosed in the notes to the financial state­ments to enable users to un­der­stand their nature, timing and amount. The key principle es­tab­lished by the Standard is that a provision should be recog­nised only when there is a liability i.e. a present oblig­a­tion resulting from past events. The Standard thus aims to ensure that only genuine oblig­a­tions are dealt with in the financial state­ments – planned future ex­pen­di­ture, even where au­tho­rised by the board of directors or equiv­a­lent governing body, is excluded from recog­ni­tion.
Scope
IAS 37 excludes oblig­a­tions and con­tin­gen­cies arising from: [IAS 37.1-6]
financial in­stru­ments that are in the scope of IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment (or IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments)
non-oner­ous executory contracts
insurance contracts (see IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts), but IAS 37 does apply to other pro­vi­sions, con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties and con­tin­gent assets of an insurer
items covered by another IFRS. For example, IAS 11 Con­struc­tion Contracts applies to oblig­a­tions arising under such contracts; IAS 12 Income Taxes applies to oblig­a­tions for current or deferred income taxes; IAS 17 Leases applies to lease oblig­a­tions; and IAS 19 Employee Benefits applies to pension and other employee benefit oblig­a­tions.
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions [IAS 37.10]
Provision: a liability of uncertain timing or amount.
Liability:
present oblig­a­tion as a result of past events
set­tle­ment is expected to result in an outflow of resources (payment)
Con­tin­gent liability:
a possible oblig­a­tion depending on whether some uncertain future event occurs, or
a present oblig­a­tion but payment is not probable or the amount cannot be measured reliably
Con­tin­gent asset:
a possible asset that arises from past events, and
whose existence will be confirmed only by the oc­cur­rence or non-oc­cur­rence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity.
Recog­ni­tion of a provision
An entity must recognise a provision if, and only if: [IAS 37.14]
a present oblig­a­tion (legal or con­struc­tive) has arisen as a result of a past event (the oblig­at­ing event),
payment is probable ('more likely than not'), and
the amount can be estimated reliably.
An oblig­at­ing event is an event that creates a legal or con­struc­tive oblig­a­tion and, therefore, results in an entity having no realistic al­ter­na­tive but to settle the oblig­a­tion. [IAS 37.10]
A con­struc­tive oblig­a­tion arises if past practice creates a valid ex­pec­ta­tion on the part of a third party, for example, a retail store that has a long-stand­ing policy of allowing customers to return mer­chan­dise within, say, a 30-day period. [IAS 37.10]
A possible oblig­a­tion (a con­tin­gent liability) is disclosed but not accrued. However, dis­clo­sure is not required if payment is remote. [IAS 37.86]
In rare cases, for example in a lawsuit, it may not be clear whether an entity has a present oblig­a­tion. In those cases, a past event is deemed to give rise to a present oblig­a­tion if, taking account of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that a present oblig­a­tion exists at the balance sheet date. A provision should be recog­nised for that present oblig­a­tion if the other recog­ni­tion criteria described above are met. If it is more likely than not that no present oblig­a­tion exists, the entity should disclose a con­tin­gent liability, unless the pos­si­bil­ity of an outflow of resources is remote. [IAS 37.15]
Mea­sure­ment of pro­vi­sions
The amount recog­nised as a provision should be the best estimate of the ex­pen­di­ture required to settle the present oblig­a­tion at the balance sheet date, that is, the amount that an entity would ra­tio­nally pay to settle the oblig­a­tion at the balance sheet date or to transfer it to a third party. [IAS 37.36] This means:
Pro­vi­sions for one-off events (re­struc­tur­ing, en­vi­ron­men­tal clean-up, set­tle­ment of a lawsuit) are measured at the most likely amount. [IAS 37.40]
Pro­vi­sions for large pop­u­la­tions of events (war­ranties, customer refunds) are measured at a prob­a­bil­ity-weighted expected value. [IAS 37.39]
Both mea­sure­ments are at dis­counted present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market as­sess­ments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. [IAS 37.45 and 37.47]
In reaching its best estimate, the entity should take into account the risks and un­cer­tain­ties that surround the un­der­ly­ing events. [IAS 37.42]
If some or all of the ex­pen­di­ture required to settle a provision is expected to be re­im­bursed by another party, the re­im­burse­ment should be recog­nised as a separate asset, and not as a reduction of the required provision, when, and only when, it is virtually certain that re­im­burse­ment will be received if the entity settles the oblig­a­tion. The amount recog­nised should not exceed the amount of the provision. [IAS 37.53]
In measuring a provision consider future events as follows:
forecast rea­son­able changes in applying existing tech­nol­ogy [IAS 37.49]
ignore possible gains on sale of assets [IAS 37.51]
consider changes in leg­is­la­tion only if virtually certain to be enacted [IAS 37.50]
Re­mea­sure­ment of pro­vi­sions [IAS 37.59]
Review and adjust pro­vi­sions at each balance sheet date
If an outflow no longer probable, provision is reversed.
Some examples of pro­vi­sions
Cir­cum­stance Recognise a provision?
Re­struc­tur­ing by sale of an operation Only when the entity is committed to a sale, i.e. there is a binding sale agreement [IAS 37.78]
Re­struc­tur­ing by closure or re­or­gan­i­sa­tion Only when a detailed form plan is in place and the entity has started to implement the plan, or announced its main features to those affected. A Board decision is in­suf­fi­cient [IAS 37.72, Appendix C, Examples 5A & 5B]
Warranty When an oblig­at­ing event occurs (sale of product with a warranty and probable warranty claims will be made) [Appendix C, Example 1]
Land con­t­a­m­i­na­tion A provision is recog­nised as con­t­a­m­i­na­tion occurs for any legal oblig­a­tions of clean up, or for con­struc­tive oblig­a­tions if the company's published policy is to clean up even if there is no legal re­quire­ment to do so (past event is the con­t­a­m­i­na­tion and public ex­pec­ta­tion created by the company's policy) [Appendix C, Examples 2B]
Customer refunds Recognise a provision if the entity's es­tab­lished policy is to give refunds (past event is the sale of the product together with the customer's ex­pec­ta­tion, at time of purchase, that a refund would be available) [Appendix C, Example 4]
Offshore oil rig must be removed and sea bed restored Recognise a provision for removal costs arising from the con­struc­tion of the the oil rig as it is con­structed, and add to the cost of the asset.  Oblig­a­tions arising from the pro­duc­tion of oil are recog­nised as the pro­duc­tion occurs [Appendix C, Example 3]
Abandoned leasehold, four years to run, no re-let­ting possible A provision is recog­nised for the un­avoid­able lease payments [Appendix C, Example 8]
CPA firm must staff training for recent changes in tax law No provision is recog­nised (there is no oblig­a­tion to provide the training, recognise a liability if and when the re­train­ing occurs) [Appendix C, Example 7]
Major overhaul or repairs No provision is recog­nised (no oblig­a­tion) [Appendix C, Example 11]
Onerous (loss-mak­ing) contract Recognise a provision [IAS 37.66]
Future operating losses No provision is recog­nised (no liability) [IAS 37.63]
Re­struc­tur­ings
A re­struc­tur­ing is: [IAS 37.70]
sale or ter­mi­na­tion of a line of business
closure of business locations
changes in man­age­ment structure
fun­da­men­tal re­or­gan­i­sa­tions.
Re­struc­tur­ing pro­vi­sions should be recog­nised as follows: [IAS 37.72]
Sale of operation: recognise a provision only after a binding sale agreement [IAS 37.78]
Closure or re­or­gan­i­sa­tion: recognise a provision only after a detailed formal plan is adopted and has started being im­ple­mented, or announced to those affected. A board decision of itself is in­suf­fi­cient.
Future operating losses: pro­vi­sions are not recog­nised for future operating losses, even in a re­struc­tur­ing
Re­struc­tur­ing provision on ac­qui­si­tion: recognise a provision only if there is an oblig­a­tion at ac­qui­si­tion date [IFRS 3.11]
Re­struc­tur­ing pro­vi­sions should include only direct ex­pen­di­tures nec­es­sar­ily entailed by the re­struc­tur­ing, not costs that as­so­ci­ated with the ongoing ac­tiv­i­ties of the entity. [IAS 37.80]
What is the debit entry?
When a provision (liability) is recog­nised, the debit entry for a provision is not always an expense. Sometimes the provision may form part of the cost of the asset. Examples: included in the cost of in­ven­to­ries, or an oblig­a­tion for en­vi­ron­men­tal cleanup when a new mine is opened or an offshore oil rig is installed. [IAS 37.8]
Use of pro­vi­sions
Pro­vi­sions should only be used for the purpose for which they were orig­i­nally recog­nised. They should be reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the oblig­a­tion, the provision should be reversed. [IAS 37.61]
Con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties
Since there is common ground as regards li­a­bil­i­ties that are uncertain, IAS 37 also deals with con­tin­gen­cies. It requires that entities should not recognise con­tin­gent li­a­bil­i­ties – but should disclose them, unless the pos­si­bil­ity of an outflow of economic resources is remote. [IAS 37.86]
Con­tin­gent assets
Con­tin­gent assets should not be recog­nised – but should be disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable. When the re­al­i­sa­tion of income is virtually certain, then the related asset is not a con­tin­gent asset and its recog­ni­tion is ap­pro­pri­ate. [IAS 37.31-35]
Dis­clo­sures
Rec­on­cil­i­a­tion for each class of provision: [IAS 37.84]
opening balance
additions
used (amounts charged against the provision)
unused amounts reversed
unwinding of the discount, or changes in discount rate
closing balance
A prior year rec­on­cil­i­a­tion is not required. [IAS 37.84]
For each class of provision, a brief de­scrip­tion of: [IAS 37.85]
nature
timing
un­cer­tain­ties
as­sump­tions
re­im­burse­ment, if any.
IAS 38 — Intangible Assets
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets outlines the accounting re­quire­ments for in­tan­gi­ble assets, which are non-mon­e­tary assets which are without physical substance and iden­ti­fi­able (either being separable or arising from con­trac­tual or other legal rights). In­tan­gi­ble assets meeting the relevant recog­ni­tion criteria are initially measured at cost, sub­se­quently measured at cost or using the reval­u­a­tion model, and amortised on a sys­tem­atic basis over their useful lives (unless the asset has an in­def­i­nite useful life, in which case it is not amortised).
IAS 38 was revised in March 2004 and applies to in­tan­gi­ble assets acquired in business com­bi­na­tions occurring on or after 31 March 2004, or otherwise to other in­tan­gi­ble assets for annual periods beginning on or after 31 March 2004.
History of IAS 38
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
February 1977 Exposure Draft E9 Accounting for Research and De­vel­op­ment Ac­tiv­i­ties
July 1978 IAS 9 (1978) Accounting for Research and De­vel­op­ment Ac­tiv­i­ties issued Effective 1 January 1980
August 1991 Exposure Draft E37 Research and De­vel­op­ment Costs published
December 1993 IAS 9 (1993) Research and De­vel­op­ment Costs issued Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1995
June 1995 Exposure Draft E50 In­tan­gi­ble Assets published
August 1997 E50 was modified and re-ex­posed as Exposure Draft E59 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
September 1998 IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets issued Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 July 1998
31 March 2004 IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets issued Applies to in­tan­gi­ble assets acquired in business com­bi­na­tions occurring on or after 31 March 2004, or otherwise to other in­tan­gi­ble assets for annual periods beginning on or after 31 March 2004
22 May 2008 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (ad­ver­tis­ing and pro­mo­tional ac­tiv­i­ties, units of pro­duc­tion method of amor­ti­sa­tion) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
16 April 2009 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (mea­sure­ment of in­tan­gi­ble assets in business com­bi­na­tions) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle (pro­por­tion­ate re­state­ment of ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion under the reval­u­a­tion method) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
12 May 2014 Amended by Clar­i­fi­ca­tion of Ac­cept­able Methods of De­pre­ci­a­tion and Amor­ti­sa­tion (Amend­ments to IAS 16 and IAS 38) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Pro­duc­tion Phase of a Surface Mine
IAS 16 su­per­sedes SIC-6 Costs of Modifying Existing Software
SIC-32 In­tan­gi­ble Assets – Website Costs
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Research project — Rate-reg­u­lated ac­tiv­i­ties
Research project — In­tan­gi­ble assets
Summary of IAS 38
Objective
The objective of IAS 38 is to prescribe the accounting treatment for in­tan­gi­ble assets that are not dealt with specif­i­cally in another IFRS. The Standard requires an entity to recognise an in­tan­gi­ble asset if, and only if, certain criteria are met. The Standard also specifies how to measure the carrying amount of in­tan­gi­ble assets and requires certain dis­clo­sures regarding in­tan­gi­ble assets. [IAS 38.1]
Scope
IAS 38 applies to all in­tan­gi­ble assets other than: [IAS 38.2-3]
financial assets (see IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion)
ex­plo­ration and eval­u­a­tion assets (see IFRS 6 Ex­plo­ration for and Eval­u­a­tion of Mineral Resources)
ex­pen­di­ture on the de­vel­op­ment and ex­trac­tion of minerals, oil, natural gas, and similar resources
in­tan­gi­ble assets arising from insurance contracts issued by insurance companies
in­tan­gi­ble assets covered by another IFRS, such as in­tan­gi­bles held for sale (IFRS 5 Non-cur­rent Assets Held for Sale and Dis­con­tin­ued Op­er­a­tions), deferred tax assets (IAS 12 Income Taxes), lease assets (IAS 17 Leases), assets arising from employee benefits (IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011)), and goodwill (IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions).
Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
In­tan­gi­ble asset: an iden­ti­fi­able non-mon­e­tary asset without physical substance. An asset is a resource that is con­trolled by the entity as a result of past events (for example, purchase or self-cre­ation) and from which future economic benefits (inflows of cash or other assets) are expected. [IAS 38.8] Thus, the three critical at­trib­utes of an in­tan­gi­ble asset are:
iden­ti­fi­a­bil­ity
control (power to obtain benefits from the asset)
future economic benefits (such as revenues or reduced future costs)
Iden­ti­fi­a­bil­ity: an in­tan­gi­ble asset is iden­ti­fi­able when it: [IAS 38.12]
is separable (capable of being separated and sold, trans­ferred, licensed, rented, or exchanged, either in­di­vid­u­ally or together with a related contract) or
arises from con­trac­tual or other legal rights, re­gard­less of whether those rights are trans­fer­able or separable from the entity or from other rights and oblig­a­tions.
Examples of in­tan­gi­ble assets
patented tech­nol­ogy, computer software, databases and trade secrets
trade­marks, trade dress, newspaper mastheads, internet domains
video and au­dio­vi­sual material (e.g. motion pictures, tele­vi­sion pro­grammes)
customer lists
mortgage servicing rights
licensing, royalty and stand­still agree­ments
import quotas
franchise agree­ments
customer and supplier re­la­tion­ships (including customer lists)
marketing rights
In­tan­gi­bles can be acquired:
by separate purchase
as part of a business com­bi­na­tion
by a gov­ern­ment grant
by exchange of assets
by self-cre­ation (internal gen­er­a­tion)
Recog­ni­tion
Recog­ni­tion criteria. IAS 38 requires an entity to recognise an in­tan­gi­ble asset, whether purchased or self-cre­ated (at cost) if, and only if: [IAS 38.21]
it is probable that the future economic benefits that are at­trib­ut­able to the asset will flow to the entity; and
the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
This re­quire­ment applies whether an in­tan­gi­ble asset is acquired ex­ter­nally or generated in­ter­nally. IAS 38 includes ad­di­tional recog­ni­tion criteria for in­ter­nally generated in­tan­gi­ble assets (see below).
The prob­a­bil­ity of future economic benefits must be based on rea­son­able and sup­port­able as­sump­tions about con­di­tions that will exist over the life of the asset. [IAS 38.22] The prob­a­bil­ity recog­ni­tion criterion is always con­sid­ered to be satisfied for in­tan­gi­ble assets that are acquired sep­a­rately or in a business com­bi­na­tion. [IAS 38.33]
If recog­ni­tion criteria not met. If an in­tan­gi­ble item does not meet both the de­f­i­n­i­tion of and the criteria for recog­ni­tion as an in­tan­gi­ble asset, IAS 38 requires the ex­pen­di­ture on this item to be recog­nised as an expense when it is incurred. [IAS 38.68]
Business com­bi­na­tions. There is a pre­sump­tion that the fair value (and therefore the cost) of an in­tan­gi­ble asset acquired in a business com­bi­na­tion can be measured reliably. [IAS 38.35] An ex­pen­di­ture (included in the cost of ac­qui­si­tion) on an in­tan­gi­ble item that does not meet both the de­f­i­n­i­tion of and recog­ni­tion criteria for an in­tan­gi­ble asset should form part of the amount at­trib­uted to the goodwill recog­nised at the ac­qui­si­tion date.
Re­in­state­ment. The Standard also prohibits an entity from sub­se­quently re­in­stat­ing as an in­tan­gi­ble asset, at a later date, an ex­pen­di­ture that was orig­i­nally charged to expense. [IAS 38.71]
Initial recog­ni­tion: research and de­vel­op­ment costs
Charge all research cost to expense. [IAS 38.54]
De­vel­op­ment costs are cap­i­talised only after technical and com­mer­cial fea­si­bil­ity of the asset for sale or use have been es­tab­lished. This means that the entity must intend and be able to complete the in­tan­gi­ble asset and either use it or sell it and be able to demon­strate how the asset will generate future economic benefits. [IAS 38.57]
If an entity cannot dis­tin­guish the research phase of an internal project to create an in­tan­gi­ble asset from the de­vel­op­ment phase, the entity treats the ex­pen­di­ture for that project as if it were incurred in the research phase only.
Initial recog­ni­tion: in-process research and de­vel­op­ment acquired in a business com­bi­na­tion
A research and de­vel­op­ment project acquired in a business com­bi­na­tion is recog­nised as an asset at cost, even if a component is research. Sub­se­quent ex­pen­di­ture on that project is accounted for as any other research and de­vel­op­ment cost (expensed except to the extent that the ex­pen­di­ture satisfies the criteria in IAS 38 for recog­nis­ing such ex­pen­di­ture as an in­tan­gi­ble asset). [IAS 38.34]
Initial recog­ni­tion: in­ter­nally generated brands, mastheads, titles, lists
Brands, mastheads, pub­lish­ing titles, customer lists and items similar in substance that are in­ter­nally generated should not be recog­nised as assets. [IAS 38.63]
Initial recog­ni­tion: computer software
Purchased: cap­i­talise
Operating system for hardware: include in hardware cost
In­ter­nally developed (whether for use or sale): charge to expense until tech­no­log­i­cal fea­si­bil­ity, probable future benefits, intent and ability to use or sell the software, resources to complete the software, and ability to measure cost.
Amor­ti­sa­tion: over useful life, based on pattern of benefits (straight-line is the default).
Initial recog­ni­tion: certain other defined types of costs
The following items must be charged to expense when incurred:
in­ter­nally generated goodwill [IAS 38.48]
start-up, pre-open­ing, and pre-op­er­at­ing costs [IAS 38.69]
training cost [IAS 38.69]
ad­ver­tis­ing and pro­mo­tional cost, including mail order cat­a­logues [IAS 38.69]
re­lo­ca­tion costs [IAS 38.69]
For this purpose, 'when incurred' means when the entity receives the related goods or services. If the entity has made a pre­pay­ment for the above items, that pre­pay­ment is recog­nised as an asset until the entity receives the related goods or services. [IAS 38.70]
Initial mea­sure­ment
In­tan­gi­ble assets are initially measured at cost. [IAS 38.24]
Mea­sure­ment sub­se­quent to ac­qui­si­tion: cost model and reval­u­a­tion models allowed
An entity must choose either the cost model or the reval­u­a­tion model for each class of in­tan­gi­ble asset. [IAS 38.72]
Cost model. After initial recog­ni­tion in­tan­gi­ble assets should be carried at cost less ac­cu­mu­lated amor­ti­sa­tion and im­pair­ment losses. [IAS 38.74]
Reval­u­a­tion model. In­tan­gi­ble assets may be carried at a revalued amount (based on fair value) less any sub­se­quent amor­ti­sa­tion and im­pair­ment losses only if fair value can be de­ter­mined by reference to an active market. [IAS 38.75] Such active markets are expected to be uncommon for in­tan­gi­ble assets. [IAS 38.78] Examples where they might exist:
pro­duc­tion quotas
fishing licences
taxi licences
Under the reval­u­a­tion model, reval­u­a­tion increases are recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income and ac­cu­mu­lated in the "reval­u­a­tion surplus" within equity except to the extent that they reverse a reval­u­a­tion decrease pre­vi­ously recog­nised in profit and loss. If the revalued in­tan­gi­ble has a finite life and is, therefore, being amortised (see below) the revalued amount is amortised. [IAS 38.85]
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of in­tan­gi­ble assets based on useful life
In­tan­gi­ble assets are clas­si­fied as: [IAS 38.88]
In­def­i­nite life: no fore­see­able limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inflows for the entity.
Finite life: a limited period of benefit to the entity.
Mea­sure­ment sub­se­quent to ac­qui­si­tion: in­tan­gi­ble assets with finite lives
The cost less residual value of an in­tan­gi­ble asset with a finite useful life should be amortised on a sys­tem­atic basis over that life: [IAS 38.97]
The amor­ti­sa­tion method should reflect the pattern of benefits.
If the pattern cannot be de­ter­mined reliably, amortise by the straight-line method.
The amor­ti­sa­tion charge is recog­nised in profit or loss unless another IFRS requires that it be included in the cost of another asset.
The amor­ti­sa­tion period should be reviewed at least annually. [IAS 38.104]
Expected future re­duc­tions in selling prices could be in­dica­tive of a higher rate of con­sump­tion of the future economic benefits embodied in an asset. [IAS 18.92]
The standard contains a re­but­table pre­sump­tion that a rev­enue-based amor­ti­sa­tion method for in­tan­gi­ble assets is in­ap­pro­pri­ate. However, there are limited cir­cum­stances when the pre­sump­tion can be overcome:
The in­tan­gi­ble asset is expressed as a measure of revenue; and
it can be demon­strated that revenue and the con­sump­tion of economic benefits of the in­tan­gi­ble asset are highly cor­re­lated. [IAS 38.98A]
Note: The guidance on expected future re­duc­tions in selling prices and the clar­i­fi­ca­tion regarding the rev­enue-based de­pre­ci­a­tion method were in­tro­duced by Clar­i­fi­ca­tion of Ac­cept­able Methods of De­pre­ci­a­tion and Amor­ti­sa­tion, which applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
  Examples where revenue based amor­ti­sa­tion may be ap­pro­pri­ate

IAS 38 notes that in the cir­cum­stance in which the pre­dom­i­nant limiting factor that is inherent in an in­tan­gi­ble asset is the achieve­ment of a revenue threshold, the revenue to be generated can be an ap­pro­pri­ate basis for amor­ti­sa­tion of the asset. The standard provides the following examples where revenue to be generated might be an ap­pro­pri­ate basis for amor­ti­sa­tion: [IAS 38.98C]
A con­ces­sion to explore and extract gold from a gold mine which is limited to a fixed amount of revenue generated from the ex­trac­tion of gold
A right to operate a toll road that is based on a fixed amount of revenue gen­er­a­tion from cu­mu­la­tive tolls charged.
The asset should also be assessed for im­pair­ment in ac­cor­dance with IAS 36. [IAS 38.111]
Mea­sure­ment sub­se­quent to ac­qui­si­tion: in­tan­gi­ble assets with in­def­i­nite useful lives
An in­tan­gi­ble asset with an in­def­i­nite useful life should not be amortised. [IAS 38.107]
Its useful life should be reviewed each reporting period to determine whether events and cir­cum­stances continue to support an in­def­i­nite useful life as­sess­ment for that asset. If they do not, the change in the useful life as­sess­ment from in­def­i­nite to finite should be accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. [IAS 38.109]
The asset should also be assessed for im­pair­ment in ac­cor­dance with IAS 36. [IAS 38.111]
Sub­se­quent ex­pen­di­ture
Due to the nature of in­tan­gi­ble assets, sub­se­quent ex­pen­di­ture will only rarely meet the criteria for being recog­nised in the carrying amount of an asset. [IAS 38.20] Sub­se­quent ex­pen­di­ture on brands, mastheads, pub­lish­ing titles, customer lists and similar items must always be recog­nised in profit or loss as incurred. [IAS 38.63]
Dis­clo­sure
For each class of in­tan­gi­ble asset, disclose: [IAS 38.118 and 38.122]
useful life or amor­ti­sa­tion rate
amor­ti­sa­tion method
gross carrying amount
ac­cu­mu­lated amor­ti­sa­tion and im­pair­ment losses
line items in the income statement in which amor­ti­sa­tion is included
rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the carrying amount at the beginning and the end of the period showing:
additions (business com­bi­na­tions sep­a­rately)
assets held for sale
re­tire­ments and other disposals
reval­u­a­tions
im­pair­ments
reversals of im­pair­ments
amor­ti­sa­tion
foreign exchange dif­fer­ences
other changes
basis for de­ter­min­ing that an in­tan­gi­ble has an in­def­i­nite life
de­scrip­tion and carrying amount of in­di­vid­u­ally material in­tan­gi­ble assets
certain special dis­clo­sures about in­tan­gi­ble assets acquired by way of gov­ern­ment grants
in­for­ma­tion about in­tan­gi­ble assets whose title is re­stricted
con­trac­tual com­mit­ments to acquire in­tan­gi­ble assets
Ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required about:
in­tan­gi­ble assets carried at revalued amounts [IAS 38.124]
the amount of research and de­vel­op­ment ex­pen­di­ture recog­nised as an expense in the current period [IAS 38.126]
IAS 39 — Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment outlines the re­quire­ments for the recog­ni­tion and mea­sure­ment of financial assets, financial li­a­bil­i­ties, and some contracts to buy or sell non-fi­nan­cial items. Financial in­stru­ments are initially recog­nised when an entity becomes a party to the con­trac­tual pro­vi­sions of the in­stru­ment, and are clas­si­fied into various cat­e­gories depending upon the type of in­stru­ment, which then de­ter­mines the sub­se­quent mea­sure­ment of the in­stru­ment (typically amortised cost or fair value). Special rules apply to embedded de­riv­a­tives and hedging in­stru­ments.
IAS 39 was reissued in December 2003, applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, and will be largely replaced by IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
History of IAS 39
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
October 1984 Exposure Draft E26 Accounting for In­vest­ments
March 1986 IAS 25 Accounting for In­vest­ments Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1987
September 1991 Exposure Draft E40 Financial In­stru­ments
January 1994 E40 was modified and re-ex­posed as Exposure Draft E48 Financial In­stru­ments
June 1995 The dis­clo­sure and pre­sen­ta­tion portion of E48 was adopted as IAS 32
March 1997 Dis­cus­sion Paper Accounting for Financial Assets and Financial Li­a­bil­i­ties issued
June 1998 Exposure Draft E62 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment issued Comment deadline 30 September 1998
December 1998 IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment (1998) Effective date 1 January 2001
April 2000 With­drawal of IAS 25 following the approval of IAS 40 In­vest­ment Property Effective for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2001
October 2000 Limited revisions to IAS 39 Effective date 1 January 2001
17 December 2003 IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment (2004) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
31 March 2004 IAS 39 revised to reflect macro hedging Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
17 December 2004 Amendment issued to IAS 39 for tran­si­tion and initial recog­ni­tion of profit or loss
14 April 2005 Amendment issued to IAS 39 for cash flow hedges of forecast in­tra­group trans­ac­tions Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
15 June 2005 Amendment to IAS 39 for fair value option Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
18 August 2005 Amendment to IAS 39 for financial guarantee contracts Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
22 May 2008 IAS 39 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
30 July 2008 Amendment to IAS 39 for eligible hedged items Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
13 October 2008 Amendment to IAS 39 for re­clas­si­fi­ca­tions of financial assets Effective 1 July 2008
12 March 2009 Amendment to IAS 39 for embedded de­riv­a­tives on re­clas­si­fi­ca­tions of financial assets Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
16 April 2009 IAS 39 amended for Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2009 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
12 November 2009 IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments issued, replacing the clas­si­fi­ca­tion and mea­sure­ment of financial assets pro­vi­sions of IAS 39 Original effective date 1 January 2013, later deferred and sub­se­quently removed*
28 October 2010 IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments reissued, in­cor­po­rat­ing new re­quire­ments on accounting for financial li­a­bil­i­ties and carrying over from IAS 39 the re­quire­ments for dere­cog­ni­tion of financial assets and financial li­a­bil­i­ties Original effective date 1 January 2013, later deferred and sub­se­quently removed*
27 June 2013 Amended by Novation of De­riv­a­tives and Con­tin­u­a­tion of Hedge Accounting Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 (earlier ap­pli­ca­tion permitted)
19 November 2013 IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments (Hedge Accounting and amend­ments to IFRS 9, IFRS 7 and IAS 39) issued, per­mit­ting an entity to elect to continue to apply the hedge accounting re­quire­ments in IAS 39 for a fair value hedge of the interest rate exposure of a portion of a portfolio of financial assets or financial li­a­bil­i­ties when IFRS 9 is applied, and to extend the fair value option to certain contracts that meet the 'own use' scope exception Applies when IFRS 9 is applied*
24 July 2014 IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments issued, replacing IAS 39 re­quire­ments for clas­si­fi­ca­tion and mea­sure­ment, im­pair­ment, hedge accounting and dere­cog­ni­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018#
* IFRS 9 (2014) su­per­sedes IFRS 9 (2009), IFRS 9 (2010) and IFRS 9 (2013), but these standards remain available for ap­pli­ca­tion if the relevant date of initial ap­pli­ca­tion is before 1 February 2015.
# When an entity first applies IFRS 9, it may choose as its accounting policy choice to continue to apply the hedge accounting re­quire­ments of IAS 39 instead of the re­quire­ments of Chapter 6 of IFRS 9.  The IASB currently is un­der­tak­ing a project on macro hedge accounting which is expected to even­tu­ally replace these sections of IAS 39.
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
IFRIC 16 Hedge of a Net In­vest­ment in a Foreign Operation
IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments
IFRIC 9 Re­assess­ment of Embedded De­riv­a­tives
IAS 39 (2003) su­per­seded SIC-33 Con­sol­i­da­tion and Equity Method – Potential Voting Rights and Al­lo­ca­tion of Ownership Interest
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
Financial in­stru­ments — Macro hedge accounting
IBOR reform and the effects on financial reporting — Phase 1
IBOR reform and the effects on financial reporting — Phase 2
Summary of IAS 39
Deloitte guidance on IFRSs for financial in­stru­ments
iGAAP 2012: Financial In­stru­ments
Deloitte (United Kingdom) has developed iGAAP 2012: Financial In­stru­ments – IFRS 9 and related Standards (Volume B) and iGAAP 2012: Financial In­stru­ments – IAS 39 and related Standards (Volume C), which have been published by Lex­is­Nexis. These pub­li­ca­tions are the au­thor­i­ta­tive guides for financial in­stru­ments accounting under IFRSs. These two titles go beyond and behind the technical re­quire­ments, un­earthing common practices and problems, and providing views, in­ter­pre­ta­tions, clear ex­pla­na­tions and examples. They enable the reader to gain a sound un­der­stand­ing of the standards and an ap­pre­ci­a­tion of their practicalities.The iGAAP 2012 Financial In­stru­ments books can be purchased through www.lexisnexis.co.uk/deloitte.
Scope
Scope ex­clu­sions
IAS 39 applies to all types of financial in­stru­ments except for the following, which are scoped out of IAS 39: [IAS 39.2]
interests in sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates, and joint ventures accounted for under IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments, IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates, or IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures (or, for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments, IAS 27 Separate Financial State­ments or IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates and Joint Ventures); however IAS 39 applies in cases where under those standards such interests are to be accounted for under IAS 39. The standard also applies to most de­riv­a­tives on an interest in a sub­sidiary, associate, or joint venture
employers' rights and oblig­a­tions under employee benefit plans to which IAS 19 Employee Benefits applies
forward contracts between an acquirer and selling share­holder to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a business com­bi­na­tion at a future ac­qui­si­tion date
rights and oblig­a­tions under insurance contracts, except IAS 39 does apply to financial in­stru­ments that take the form of an insurance (or rein­sur­ance) contract but that prin­ci­pally involve the transfer of financial risks and de­riv­a­tives embedded in insurance contracts
financial in­stru­ments that meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of own equity under IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
financial in­stru­ments, contracts and oblig­a­tions under share-based payment trans­ac­tions to which IFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies
rights to re­im­burse­ment payments to which IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets applies
Leases
IAS 39 applies to lease re­ceiv­ables and payables only in limited respects: [IAS 39.2(b)]
IAS 39 applies to lease re­ceiv­ables with respect to the dere­cog­ni­tion and im­pair­ment pro­vi­sions
IAS 39 applies to lease payables with respect to the dere­cog­ni­tion pro­vi­sions
IAS 39 applies to de­riv­a­tives embedded in leases.
Financial guar­an­tees
IAS 39 applies to financial guarantee contracts issued. However, if an issuer of financial guarantee contracts has pre­vi­ously asserted ex­plic­itly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting ap­plic­a­ble to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either IAS 39 or IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts to such financial guarantee contracts. The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is ir­rev­o­ca­ble.
Accounting by the holder is excluded from the scope of IAS 39 and IFRS 4 (unless the contract is a rein­sur­ance contract). Therefore, para­graphs 10-12 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors apply. Those para­graphs specify criteria to use in de­vel­op­ing an accounting policy if no IFRS applies specif­i­cally to an item.
Loan com­mit­ments
Loan com­mit­ments are outside the scope of IAS 39 if they cannot be settled net in cash or another financial in­stru­ment, they are not des­ig­nated as financial li­a­bil­i­ties at fair value through profit or loss, and the entity does not have a past practice of selling the loans that resulted from the com­mit­ment shortly after orig­i­na­tion. An issuer of a com­mit­ment to provide a loan at a be­low-mar­ket interest rate is required initially to recognise the com­mit­ment at its fair value; sub­se­quently, the issuer will remeasure it at the higher of (a) the amount recog­nised under IAS 37 and (b) the amount initially recog­nised less, where ap­pro­pri­ate, cu­mu­la­tive amor­ti­sa­tion recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with IAS 18. An issuer of loan com­mit­ments must apply IAS 37 to other loan com­mit­ments that are not within the scope of IAS 39 (that is, those made at market or above). Loan com­mit­ments are subject to the dere­cog­ni­tion pro­vi­sions of IAS 39. [IAS 39.4]
Contracts to buy or sell financial items
Contracts to buy or sell financial items are always within the scope of IAS 39 (unless one of the other ex­cep­tions applies).
Contracts to buy or sell non-fi­nan­cial items
Contracts to buy or sell non-fi­nan­cial items are within the scope of IAS 39 if they can be settled net in cash or another financial asset and are not entered into and held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-fi­nan­cial item in ac­cor­dance with the entity's expected purchase, sale, or usage re­quire­ments. Contracts to buy or sell non-fi­nan­cial items are inside the scope if net set­tle­ment occurs. The following sit­u­a­tions con­sti­tute net set­tle­ment: [IAS 39.5-6]
the terms of the contract permit either coun­ter­party to settle net
there is a past practice of net settling similar contracts
there is a past practice, for similar contracts, of taking delivery of the un­der­ly­ing and selling it within a short period after delivery to generate a profit from short-term fluc­tu­a­tions in price, or from a dealer's margin, or
the non-fi­nan­cial item is readily con­vert­ible to cash
Weather de­riv­a­tives
Although contracts requiring payment based on climatic, ge­o­log­i­cal, or other physical variable were generally excluded from the original version of IAS 39, they were added to the scope of the revised IAS 39 in December 2003 if they are not in the scope of IFRS 4. [IAS 39.AG1]
De­f­i­n­i­tions
IAS 39 in­cor­po­rates the de­f­i­n­i­tions of the following items from IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion: [IAS 39.8]
financial in­stru­ment
financial asset
financial liability
equity in­stru­ment.
Note: Where an entity applies IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments prior to its mandatory ap­pli­ca­tion date (1 January 2015), de­f­i­n­i­tions of the following terms are also in­cor­po­rated from IFRS 9: dere­cog­ni­tion, de­riv­a­tive, fair value, financial guarantee contract.  The de­f­i­n­i­tion of those terms outlined below (as relevant) are those from IAS 39.
Common examples of financial in­stru­ments within the scope of IAS 39
cash
demand and time deposits
com­mer­cial paper
accounts, notes, and loans re­ceiv­able and payable
debt and equity se­cu­ri­ties. These are financial in­stru­ments from the per­spec­tives of both the holder and the issuer. This category includes in­vest­ments in sub­sidiaries, as­so­ci­ates, and joint ventures
asset backed se­cu­ri­ties such as col­lat­er­alised mortgage oblig­a­tions, re­pur­chase agree­ments, and se­cu­ri­tised packages of re­ceiv­ables
de­riv­a­tives, including options, rights, warrants, futures contracts, forward contracts, and swaps.
A de­riv­a­tive is a financial in­stru­ment:
Whose value changes in response to the change in an un­der­ly­ing variable such as an interest rate, commodity or security price, or index;
That requires no initial in­vest­ment, or one that is smaller than would be required for a contract with similar response to changes in market factors; and
That is settled at a future date. [IAS 39.9]
Examples of de­riv­a­tives
Forwards: Contracts to purchase or sell a specific quantity of a financial in­stru­ment, a commodity, or a foreign currency at a specified price de­ter­mined at the outset, with delivery or set­tle­ment at a specified future date. Set­tle­ment is at maturity by actual delivery of the item specified in the contract, or by a net cash set­tle­ment.
Interest rate swaps and forward rate agree­ments: Contracts to exchange cash flows as of a specified date or a series of specified dates based on a notional amount and fixed and floating rates.
Futures: Contracts similar to forwards but with the following dif­fer­ences: futures are generic ex­change-traded, whereas forwards are in­di­vid­u­ally tailored. Futures are generally settled through an off­set­ting (reversing) trade, whereas forwards are generally settled by delivery of the un­der­ly­ing item or cash set­tle­ment.
Options: Contracts that give the purchaser the right, but not the oblig­a­tion, to buy (call option) or sell (put option) a specified quantity of a par­tic­u­lar financial in­stru­ment, commodity, or foreign currency, at a specified price (strike price), during or at a specified period of time. These can be in­di­vid­u­ally written or ex­change-traded. The purchaser of the option pays the seller (writer) of the option a fee (premium) to com­pen­sate the seller for the risk of payments under the option.
Caps and floors: These are contracts sometimes referred to as interest rate options. An interest rate cap will com­pen­sate the purchaser of the cap if interest rates rise above a pre­de­ter­mined rate (strike rate) while an interest rate floor will com­pen­sate the purchaser if rates fall below a pre­de­ter­mined rate.
Embedded de­riv­a­tives
Some contracts that them­selves are not financial in­stru­ments may nonethe­less have financial in­stru­ments embedded in them. For example, a contract to purchase a commodity at a fixed price for delivery at a future date has embedded in it a de­riv­a­tive that is indexed to the price of the commodity.
An embedded de­riv­a­tive is a feature within a contract, such that the cash flows as­so­ci­ated with that feature behave in a similar fashion to a stand-alone de­riv­a­tive. In the same way that de­riv­a­tives must be accounted for at fair value on the balance sheet with changes recog­nised in the income statement, so must some embedded de­riv­a­tives. IAS 39 requires that an embedded de­riv­a­tive be separated from its host contract and accounted for as a de­riv­a­tive when: [IAS 39.11]
the economic risks and char­ac­ter­is­tics of the embedded de­riv­a­tive are not closely related to those of the host contract
a separate in­stru­ment with the same terms as the embedded de­riv­a­tive would meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a de­riv­a­tive, and
the entire in­stru­ment is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recog­nised in the income statement
If an embedded de­riv­a­tive is separated, the host contract is accounted for under the ap­pro­pri­ate standard (for instance, under IAS 39 if the host is a financial in­stru­ment). Appendix A to IAS 39 provides examples of embedded de­riv­a­tives that are closely related to their hosts, and of those that are not.
Examples of embedded de­riv­a­tives that are not closely related to their hosts (and therefore must be sep­a­rately accounted for) include:
the equity con­ver­sion option in debt con­vert­ible to ordinary shares (from the per­spec­tive of the holder only) [IAS 39.AG30(f)]
commodity indexed interest or principal payments in host debt contracts[IAS 39.AG30(e)]
cap and floor options in host debt contracts that are in-the-money when the in­stru­ment was issued [IAS 39.AG33(b)]
leveraged inflation ad­just­ments to lease payments [IAS 39.AG33(f)]
currency de­riv­a­tives in purchase or sale contracts for non-fi­nan­cial items where the foreign currency is not that of either coun­ter­party to the contract, is not the currency in which the related good or service is routinely de­nom­i­nated in com­mer­cial trans­ac­tions around the world, and is not the currency that is commonly used in such contracts in the economic en­vi­ron­ment in which the trans­ac­tion takes place. [IAS 39.AG33(d)]
If IAS 39 requires that an embedded de­riv­a­tive be separated from its host contract, but the entity is unable to measure the embedded de­riv­a­tive sep­a­rately, the entire combined contract must be des­ig­nated as a financial asset as at fair value through profit or loss). [IAS 39.12]
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion as liability or equity
Since IAS 39 does not address accounting for equity in­stru­ments issued by the reporting en­ter­prise but it does deal with accounting for financial li­a­bil­i­ties, clas­si­fi­ca­tion of an in­stru­ment as liability or as equity is critical. IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion addresses the clas­si­fi­ca­tion question.
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of financial assets
IAS 39 requires financial assets to be clas­si­fied in one of the following cat­e­gories: [IAS 39.45]
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Avail­able-for-sale financial assets
Loans and re­ceiv­ables
Held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments
Those cat­e­gories are used to determine how a par­tic­u­lar financial asset is recog­nised and measured in the financial state­ments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. This category has two sub­cat­e­gories:
Des­ig­nated. The first includes any financial asset that is des­ig­nated on initial recog­ni­tion as one to be measured at fair value with fair value changes in profit or loss.
Held for trading. The second category includes financial assets that are held for trading. All de­riv­a­tives (except those des­ig­nated hedging in­stru­ments) and financial assets acquired or held for the purpose of selling in the short term or for which there is a recent pattern of short-term profit taking are held for trading. [IAS 39.9]
Avail­able-for-sale financial assets (AFS) are any non-de­riv­a­tive financial assets des­ig­nated on initial recog­ni­tion as available for sale or any other in­stru­ments that are not clas­si­fied as as (a) loans and re­ceiv­ables, (b) held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments or (c) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. [IAS 39.9] AFS assets are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. Fair value changes on AFS assets are recog­nised directly in equity, through the statement of changes in equity, except for interest on AFS assets (which is recog­nised in income on an effective yield basis), im­pair­ment losses and (for in­ter­est-bear­ing AFS debt in­stru­ments) foreign exchange gains or losses. The cu­mu­la­tive gain or loss that was recog­nised in equity is recog­nised in profit or loss when an avail­able-for-sale financial asset is dere­cog­nised. [IAS 39.55(b)]
Loans and re­ceiv­ables are non-de­riv­a­tive financial assets with fixed or de­ter­minable payments that are not quoted in an active market, other than held for trading or des­ig­nated on initial recog­ni­tion as assets at fair value through profit or loss or as avail­able-for-sale. Loans and re­ceiv­ables for which the holder may not recover sub­stan­tially all of its initial in­vest­ment, other than because of credit de­te­ri­o­ra­tion, should be clas­si­fied as avail­able-for-sale.[IAS 39.9] Loans and re­ceiv­ables are measured at amortised cost. [IAS 39.46(a)]
Held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments are non-de­riv­a­tive financial assets with fixed or de­ter­minable payments that an entity intends and is able to hold to maturity and that do not meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of loans and re­ceiv­ables and are not des­ig­nated on initial recog­ni­tion as assets at fair value through profit or loss or as available for sale. Held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments are measured at amortised cost. If an entity sells a held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ment other than in in­signif­i­cant amounts or as a con­se­quence of a non-re­cur­ring, isolated event beyond its control that could not be rea­son­ably an­tic­i­pated, all of its other held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments must be re­clas­si­fied as avail­able-for-sale for the current and next two financial reporting years. [IAS 39.9] Held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments are measured at amortised cost. [IAS 39.46(b)]
Clas­si­fi­ca­tion of financial li­a­bil­i­ties
IAS 39 recog­nises two classes of financial li­a­bil­i­ties: [IAS 39.47]
Financial li­a­bil­i­ties at fair value through profit or loss
Other financial li­a­bil­i­ties measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method
The category of financial liability at fair value through profit or loss has two sub­cat­e­gories:
Des­ig­nated. a financial liability that is des­ig­nated by the entity as a liability at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recog­ni­tion
Held for trading. a financial liability clas­si­fied as held for trading, such as an oblig­a­tion for se­cu­ri­ties borrowed in a short sale, which have to be returned in the future
Initial recog­ni­tion
IAS 39 requires recog­ni­tion of a financial asset or a financial liability when, and only when, the entity becomes a party to the con­trac­tual pro­vi­sions of the in­stru­ment, subject to the following pro­vi­sions in respect of regular way purchases. [IAS 39.14]
Regular way purchases or sales of a financial asset. A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recog­nised and dere­cog­nised using either trade date or set­tle­ment date accounting. [IAS 39.38] The method used is to be applied con­sis­tently for all purchases and sales of financial assets that belong to the same category of financial asset as defined in IAS 39 (note that for this purpose assets held for trading form a different category from assets des­ig­nated at fair value through profit or loss). The choice of method is an accounting policy. [IAS 39.38]
IAS 39 requires that all financial assets and all financial li­a­bil­i­ties be recog­nised on the balance sheet. That includes all de­riv­a­tives. His­tor­i­cally, in many parts of the world, de­riv­a­tives have not been recog­nised on company balance sheets. The argument has been that at the time the de­riv­a­tive contract was entered into, there was no amount of cash or other assets paid. Zero cost justified non-recog­ni­tion, notwith­stand­ing that as time passes and the value of the un­der­ly­ing variable (rate, price, or index) changes, the de­riv­a­tive has a positive (asset) or negative (liability) value.
Initial mea­sure­ment
Initially, financial assets and li­a­bil­i­ties should be measured at fair value (including trans­ac­tion costs, for assets and li­a­bil­i­ties not measured at fair value through profit or loss). [IAS 39.43]
Mea­sure­ment sub­se­quent to initial recog­ni­tion
Sub­se­quently, financial assets and li­a­bil­i­ties (including de­riv­a­tives) should be measured at fair value, with the following ex­cep­tions: [IAS 39.46-47]
Loans and re­ceiv­ables, held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ments, and non-de­riv­a­tive financial li­a­bil­i­ties should be measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
In­vest­ments in equity in­stru­ments with no reliable fair value mea­sure­ment (and de­riv­a­tives indexed to such equity in­stru­ments) should be measured at cost.
Financial assets and li­a­bil­i­ties that are des­ig­nated as a hedged item or hedging in­stru­ment are subject to mea­sure­ment under the hedge accounting re­quire­ments of the IAS 39.
Financial li­a­bil­i­ties that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for dere­cog­ni­tion, or that are accounted for using the con­tin­u­ing-in­volve­ment method, are subject to par­tic­u­lar mea­sure­ment re­quire­ments.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowl­edge­able, willing parties in an arm's length trans­ac­tion. [IAS 39.9] IAS 39 provides a hierarchy to be used in de­ter­min­ing the fair value for a financial in­stru­ment: [IAS 39 Appendix A, para­graphs AG69-82]
Quoted market prices in an active market are the best evidence of fair value and should be used, where they exist, to measure the financial in­stru­ment.
If a market for a financial in­stru­ment is not active, an entity es­tab­lishes fair value by using a valuation technique that makes maximum use of market inputs and includes recent arm's length market trans­ac­tions, reference to the current fair value of another in­stru­ment that is sub­stan­tially the same, dis­counted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models. An ac­cept­able valuation technique in­cor­po­rates all factors that market par­tic­i­pants would consider in setting a price and is con­sis­tent with accepted economic method­olo­gies for pricing financial in­stru­ments.
If there is no active market for an equity in­stru­ment and the range of rea­son­able fair values is sig­nif­i­cant and these estimates cannot be made reliably, then an entity must measure the equity in­stru­ment at cost less im­pair­ment.
Amortised cost is cal­cu­lated using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial in­stru­ment to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. Financial assets that are not carried at fair value though profit and loss are subject to an im­pair­ment test. If expected life cannot be de­ter­mined reliably, then the con­trac­tual life is used.
IAS 39 fair value option
IAS 39 permits entities to designate, at the time of ac­qui­si­tion or issuance, any financial asset or financial liability to be measured at fair value, with value changes recog­nised in profit or loss. This option is available even if the financial asset or financial liability would or­di­nar­ily, by its nature, be measured at amortised cost – but only if fair value can be reliably measured.
In June 2005 the IASB issued its amendment to IAS 39 to restrict the use of the option to designate any financial asset or any financial liability to be measured at fair value through profit and loss (the fair value option). The revisions limit the use of the option to those financial in­stru­ments that meet certain con­di­tions: [IAS 39.9]
the fair value option des­ig­na­tion elim­i­nates or sig­nif­i­cantly reduces an accounting mismatch, or
a group of financial assets, financial li­a­bil­i­ties or both is managed and its per­for­mance is evaluated on a fair value basis by entity's man­age­ment.
Once an in­stru­ment is put in the fair-value-through-profit-and-loss category, it cannot be re­clas­si­fied out with some ex­cep­tions. [IAS 39.50] In October 2008, the IASB issued amend­ments to IAS 39. The amend­ments permit re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion of some financial in­stru­ments out of the fair-value-through-profit-or-loss category (FVTPL) and out of the avail­able-for-sale category – for more detail see IAS 39.50(c). In the event of re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion, ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required under IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures. In March 2009 the IASB clarified that re­clas­si­fi­ca­tions of financial assets under the October 2008 amend­ments (see above): on re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion of a financial asset out of the 'fair value through profit or loss' category, all embedded de­riv­a­tives have to be (re)assessed and, if necessary, sep­a­rately accounted for in financial state­ments.
IAS 39 available for sale option for loans and re­ceiv­ables
IAS 39 permits entities to designate, at the time of ac­qui­si­tion, any loan or re­ceiv­able as available for sale, in which case it is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recog­nised in equity.
Im­pair­ment
A financial asset or group of assets is impaired, and im­pair­ment losses are recog­nised, only if there is objective evidence as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recog­ni­tion of the asset. An entity is required to assess at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence of im­pair­ment. If any such evidence exists, the entity is required to do a detailed im­pair­ment cal­cu­la­tion to determine whether an im­pair­ment loss should be recog­nised. [IAS 39.58] The amount of the loss is measured as the dif­fer­ence between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of estimated cash flows dis­counted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate. [IAS 39.63]
Assets that are in­di­vid­u­ally assessed and for which no im­pair­ment exists are grouped with financial assets with similar credit risk sta­tis­tics and col­lec­tively assessed for im­pair­ment. [IAS 39.64]
If, in a sub­se­quent period, the amount of the im­pair­ment loss relating to a financial asset carried at amortised cost or a debt in­stru­ment carried as avail­able-for-sale decreases due to an event occurring after the im­pair­ment was orig­i­nally recog­nised, the pre­vi­ously recog­nised im­pair­ment loss is reversed through profit or loss. Im­pair­ments relating to in­vest­ments in avail­able-for-sale equity in­stru­ments are not reversed through profit or loss. [IAS 39.65]
Financial guar­an­tees
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due. [IAS 39.9]
Under IAS 39 as amended, financial guarantee contracts are recog­nised:
initially at fair value. If the financial guarantee contract was issued in a stand-alone arm's length trans­ac­tion to an unrelated party, its fair value at inception is likely to equal the con­sid­er­a­tion received, unless there is evidence to the contrary.
sub­se­quently at the higher of (i) the amount de­ter­mined in ac­cor­dance with IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets and (ii) the amount initially recog­nised less, when ap­pro­pri­ate, cu­mu­la­tive amor­ti­sa­tion recog­nised in ac­cor­dance with IAS 18 Revenue. (If specified criteria are met, the issuer may use the fair value option in IAS 39. Fur­ther­more, different re­quire­ments continue to apply in the spe­cialised context of a 'failed' dere­cog­ni­tion trans­ac­tion.)
Some credit-re­lated guar­an­tees do not, as a pre­con­di­tion for payment, require that the holder is exposed to, and has incurred a loss on, the failure of the debtor to make payments on the guar­an­teed asset when due. An example of such a guarantee is a credit de­riv­a­tive that requires payments in response to changes in a specified credit rating or credit index. These are de­riv­a­tives and they must be measured at fair value under IAS 39.
Dere­cog­ni­tion of a financial asset
The basic premise for the dere­cog­ni­tion model in IAS 39 is to determine whether the asset under con­sid­er­a­tion for dere­cog­ni­tion is: [IAS 39.16]
an asset in its entirety or
specif­i­cally iden­ti­fied cash flows from an asset or
a fully pro­por­tion­ate share of the cash flows from an asset or
a fully pro­por­tion­ate share of specif­i­cally iden­ti­fied cash flows from a financial asset
Once the asset under con­sid­er­a­tion for dere­cog­ni­tion has been de­ter­mined, an as­sess­ment is made as to whether the asset has been trans­ferred, and if so, whether the transfer of that asset is sub­se­quently eligible for dere­cog­ni­tion.
An asset is trans­ferred if either the entity has trans­ferred the con­trac­tual rights to receive the cash flows, or the entity has retained the con­trac­tual rights to receive the cash flows from the asset, but has assumed a con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion to pass those cash flows on under an arrange­ment that meets the following three con­di­tions: [IAS 39.17-19]
the entity has no oblig­a­tion to pay amounts to the eventual recipient unless it collects equiv­a­lent amounts on the original asset
the entity is pro­hib­ited from selling or pledging the original asset (other than as security to the eventual recipient),
the entity has an oblig­a­tion to remit those cash flows without material delay
Once an entity has de­ter­mined that the asset has been trans­ferred, it then de­ter­mines whether or not it has trans­ferred sub­stan­tially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. If sub­stan­tially all the risks and rewards have been trans­ferred, the asset is dere­cog­nised. If sub­stan­tially all the risks and rewards have been retained, dere­cog­ni­tion of the asset is precluded. [IAS 39.20]
If the entity has neither retained nor trans­ferred sub­stan­tially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, then the entity must assess whether it has re­lin­quished control of the asset or not. If the entity does not control the asset then dere­cog­ni­tion is ap­pro­pri­ate; however if the entity has retained control of the asset, then the entity continues to recognise the asset to the extent to which it has a con­tin­u­ing in­volve­ment in the asset. [IAS 39.30]
These various dere­cog­ni­tion steps are sum­marised in the decision tree in AG36.
Dere­cog­ni­tion of a financial liability
A financial liability should be removed from the balance sheet when, and only when, it is ex­tin­guished, that is, when the oblig­a­tion specified in the contract is either dis­charged or cancelled or expires. [IAS 39.39] Where there has been an exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt in­stru­ments with sub­stan­tially different terms, or there has been a sub­stan­tial mod­i­fi­ca­tion of the terms of an existing financial liability, this trans­ac­tion is accounted for as an ex­tin­guish­ment of the original financial liability and the recog­ni­tion of a new financial liability. A gain or loss from ex­tin­guish­ment of the original financial liability is recog­nised in profit or loss. [IAS 39.40-41]
Hedge accounting
IAS 39 permits hedge accounting under certain cir­cum­stances provided that the hedging re­la­tion­ship is: [IAS 39.88]
formally des­ig­nated and doc­u­mented, including the entity's risk man­age­ment objective and strategy for un­der­tak­ing the hedge, iden­ti­fi­ca­tion of the hedging in­stru­ment, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged, and how the entity will assess the hedging in­stru­ment's ef­fec­tive­ness and
expected to be highly effective in achieving off­set­ting changes in fair value or cash flows at­trib­ut­able to the hedged risk as des­ig­nated and doc­u­mented, and ef­fec­tive­ness can be reliably measured and
assessed on an ongoing basis and de­ter­mined to have been highly effective
Hedging in­stru­ments
Hedging in­stru­ment is an in­stru­ment whose fair value or cash flows are expected to offset changes in the fair value or cash flows of a des­ig­nated hedged item. [IAS 39.9]
All de­riv­a­tive contracts with an external coun­ter­party may be des­ig­nated as hedging in­stru­ments except for some written options. A non-de­riv­a­tive financial asset or liability may not be des­ig­nated as a hedging in­stru­ment except as a hedge of foreign currency risk. [IAS 39.72]
For hedge accounting purposes, only in­stru­ments that involve a party external to the reporting entity can be des­ig­nated as a hedging in­stru­ment. This applies to in­tra­group trans­ac­tions as well (with the exception of certain foreign currency hedges of forecast in­tra­group trans­ac­tions – see below). However, they may qualify for hedge accounting in in­di­vid­ual financial state­ments. [IAS 39.73]
Hedged items
Hedged item is an item that exposes the entity to risk of changes in fair value or future cash flows and is des­ig­nated as being hedged. [IAS 39.9]
A hedged item can be: [IAS 39.78-82]
a single recog­nised asset or liability, firm com­mit­ment, highly probable trans­ac­tion or a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation
a group of assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, firm com­mit­ments, highly probable forecast trans­ac­tions or net in­vest­ments in foreign op­er­a­tions with similar risk char­ac­ter­is­tics
a held-to-ma­tu­rity in­vest­ment for foreign currency or credit risk (but not for interest risk or pre­pay­ment risk)
a portion of the cash flows or fair value of a financial asset or financial liability or
a non-fi­nan­cial item for foreign currency risk only for all risks of the entire item
in a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk (Macro Hedge) only, a portion of the portfolio of financial assets or financial li­a­bil­i­ties that share the risk being hedged
In April 2005, the IASB amended IAS 39 to permit the foreign currency risk of a highly probable in­tra­group forecast trans­ac­tion to qualify as the hedged item in a cash flow hedge in con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments – provided that the trans­ac­tion is de­nom­i­nated in a currency other than the func­tional currency of the entity entering into that trans­ac­tion and the foreign currency risk will affect con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments. [IAS 39.80]
In 30 July 2008, the IASB amended IAS 39 to clarify two hedge accounting issues:
inflation in a financial hedged item
a one-sided risk in a hedged item.
Ef­fec­tive­ness
IAS 39 requires hedge ef­fec­tive­ness to be assessed both prospec­tively and ret­ro­spec­tively. To qualify for hedge accounting at the inception of a hedge and, at a minimum, at each reporting date, the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item at­trib­ut­able to the hedged risk must be expected to be highly effective in off­set­ting the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging in­stru­ment on a prospec­tive basis, and on a ret­ro­spec­tive basis where actual results are within a range of 80% to 125%.
All hedge in­ef­fec­tive­ness is recog­nised im­me­di­ately in profit or loss (including in­ef­fec­tive­ness within the 80% to 125% window).
Cat­e­gories of hedges
A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recog­nised asset or liability or a pre­vi­ously un­recog­nised firm com­mit­ment or an iden­ti­fied portion of such an asset, liability or firm com­mit­ment, that is at­trib­ut­able to a par­tic­u­lar risk and could affect profit or loss. [IAS 39.86(a)] The gain or loss from the change in fair value of the hedging in­stru­ment is recog­nised im­me­di­ately in profit or loss. At the same time the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for the cor­re­spond­ing gain or loss with respect to the hedged risk, which is also recog­nised im­me­di­ately in net profit or loss. [IAS 39.89]
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to vari­abil­ity in cash flows that (i) is at­trib­ut­able to a par­tic­u­lar risk as­so­ci­ated with a recog­nised asset or liability (such as all or some future interest payments on variable rate debt) or a highly probable forecast trans­ac­tion and (ii) could affect profit or loss. [IAS 39.86(b)] The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment that is de­ter­mined to be an effective hedge is recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income. [IAS 39.95]
If a hedge of a forecast trans­ac­tion sub­se­quently results in the recog­ni­tion of a financial asset or a financial liability, any gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment that was pre­vi­ously recog­nised directly in equity is 'recycled' into profit or loss in the same period(s) in which the financial asset or liability affects profit or loss. [IAS 39.97]
If a hedge of a forecast trans­ac­tion sub­se­quently results in the recog­ni­tion of a non-fi­nan­cial asset or non-fi­nan­cial liability, then the entity has an accounting policy option that must be applied to all such hedges of forecast trans­ac­tions: [IAS 39.98]
Same accounting as for recog­ni­tion of a financial asset or financial liability – any gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment that was pre­vi­ously recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income is 'recycled' into profit or loss in the same period(s) in which the non-fi­nan­cial asset or liability affects profit or loss.
'Basis ad­just­ment' of the acquired non-fi­nan­cial asset or liability – the gain or loss on the hedging in­stru­ment that was pre­vi­ously recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income is removed from equity and is included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the acquired non-fi­nan­cial asset or liability.
A hedge of a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation as defined in IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates is accounted for similarly to a cash flow hedge. [IAS 39.102]
A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm com­mit­ment may be accounted for as a fair value hedge or as a cash flow hedge.
Dis­con­tin­u­a­tion of hedge accounting
Hedge accounting must be dis­con­tin­ued prospec­tively if: [IAS 39.91 and 39.101]
the hedging in­stru­ment expires or is sold, ter­mi­nated, or exercised
the hedge no longer meets the hedge accounting criteria – for example it is no longer effective
for cash flow hedges the forecast trans­ac­tion is no longer expected to occur, or
the entity revokes the hedge des­ig­na­tion
In June 2013, the IASB amended IAS 39 to make it clear that there is no need to dis­con­tinue hedge accounting if a hedging de­riv­a­tive is novated, provided certain criteria are met. [IAS 39.91 and IAS 39.101]
For the purpose of measuring the carrying amount of the hedged item when fair value hedge accounting ceases, a revised effective interest rate is cal­cu­lated. [IAS 39.BC35A]
If hedge accounting ceases for a cash flow hedge re­la­tion­ship because the forecast trans­ac­tion is no longer expected to occur, gains and losses deferred in other com­pre­hen­sive income must be taken to profit or loss im­me­di­ately. If the trans­ac­tion is still expected to occur and the hedge re­la­tion­ship ceases, the amounts ac­cu­mu­lated in equity will be retained in equity until the hedged item affects profit or loss. [IAS 39.101(c)]
If a hedged financial in­stru­ment that is measured at amortised cost has been adjusted for the gain or loss at­trib­ut­able to the hedged risk in a fair value hedge, this ad­just­ment is amortised to profit or loss based on a re­cal­cu­lated effective interest rate on this date such that the ad­just­ment is fully amortised by the maturity of the in­stru­ment. Amor­ti­sa­tion may begin as soon as an ad­just­ment exists and must begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value at­trib­ut­able to the risks being hedged.
Dis­clo­sure
In 2003 all dis­clo­sures about financial in­stru­ments were moved to IAS 32, so IAS 32 was renamed Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sure and Pre­sen­ta­tion. In 2005, the IASB issued IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures to replace the dis­clo­sure portions of IAS 32 effective 1 January 2007. IFRS 7 also su­per­seded IAS 30 Dis­clo­sures in the Financial State­ments of Banks and Similar Financial In­sti­tu­tions.
IAS 40 — Investment Property
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 40 In­vest­ment Property applies to the accounting for property (land and/or buildings) held to earn rentals or for capital ap­pre­ci­a­tion (or both). In­vest­ment prop­er­ties are initially measured at cost and, with some ex­cep­tions. may be sub­se­quently measured using a cost model or fair value model, with changes in the fair value under the fair value model being recog­nised in profit or loss.
IAS 40 was reissued in December 2003 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
History of IAS 40
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
October 1984 Exposure Draft E26 Accounting for In­vest­ments published
March 1986 IAS 25 Accounting for In­vest­ments issued Operative for financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1987
July 1999 Exposure Draft E64 In­vest­ment Property published Comment deadline 31 October 1999
April 2000 IAS 40 In­vest­ment Property (2000) issued
(Su­per­sedes IAS 25 with respect to in­vest­ment property) Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2001
May 2002 Exposure Draft Im­prove­ments to International Accounting Standards (2000) published Comment deadline 16 September 2002
18 December 2003 IAS 40 In­vest­ment Property (2003) issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
22 May 2008 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2007 (include property under con­struc­tion or de­vel­op­ment for future use within scope) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
12 December 2013 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle (in­ter­re­la­tion­ship between IFRS 3 and IAS 40) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014
8 December 2016 Amended by Transfers of In­vest­ment Property (Amend­ments to IAS 40) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2018
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Summary of IAS 40
De­f­i­n­i­tion of in­vest­ment property
In­vest­ment property is property (land or a building or part of a building or both) held (by the owner or by the lessee under a finance lease) to earn rentals or for capital ap­pre­ci­a­tion or both. [IAS 40.5]
Examples of in­vest­ment property: [IAS 40.8]
land held for long-term capital ap­pre­ci­a­tion
land held for a currently un­de­ter­mined future use
building leased out under an operating lease
vacant building held to be leased out under an operating lease
property that is being con­structed or developed for future use as in­vest­ment property
The following are not in­vest­ment property and, therefore, are outside the scope of IAS 40: [IAS 40.5 and 40.9]
property held for use in the pro­duc­tion or supply of goods or services or for ad­min­is­tra­tive purposes
property held for sale in the ordinary course of business or in the process of con­struc­tion of de­vel­op­ment for such sale (IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries)
property being con­structed or developed on behalf of third parties (IAS 11 Con­struc­tion Contracts)
owner-oc­cu­pied property (IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment), including property held for future use as owner-oc­cu­pied property, property held for future de­vel­op­ment and sub­se­quent use as owner-oc­cu­pied property, property occupied by employees and owner-oc­cu­pied property awaiting disposal
property leased to another entity under a finance lease
In May 2008, as part of its Annual im­prove­ments project, the IASB expanded the scope of IAS 40 to include property under con­struc­tion or de­vel­op­ment for future use as an in­vest­ment property. Such property pre­vi­ously fell within the scope of IAS 16.
Other clas­si­fi­ca­tion issues
Property held under an operating lease. A property interest that is held by a lessee under an operating lease may be clas­si­fied and accounted for as in­vest­ment property provided that: [IAS 40.6]
the rest of the de­f­i­n­i­tion of in­vest­ment property is met
the operating lease is accounted for as if it were a finance lease in ac­cor­dance with IAS 17 Leases
the lessee uses the fair value model set out in this Standard for the asset recog­nised
An entity may make the foregoing clas­si­fi­ca­tion on a prop­erty-by-prop­erty basis.
Partial own use. If the owner uses part of the property for its own use, and part to earn rentals or for capital ap­pre­ci­a­tion, and the portions can be sold or leased out sep­a­rately, they are accounted for sep­a­rately. Therefore the part that is rented out is in­vest­ment property. If the portions cannot be sold or leased out sep­a­rately, the property is in­vest­ment property only if the owner-oc­cu­pied portion is in­signif­i­cant. [IAS 40.10]
Ancillary services. If the entity provides ancillary services to the occupants of a property held by the entity, the ap­pro­pri­ate­ness of clas­si­fi­ca­tion as in­vest­ment property is de­ter­mined by the sig­nif­i­cance of the services provided. If those services are a rel­a­tively in­signif­i­cant component of the arrange­ment as a whole (for instance, the building owner supplies security and main­te­nance services to the lessees), then the entity may treat the property as in­vest­ment property. Where the services provided are more sig­nif­i­cant (such as in the case of an owner-man­aged hotel), the property should be clas­si­fied as owner-oc­cu­pied. [IAS 40.13]
In­tra­com­pany rentals. Property rented to a parent, sub­sidiary, or fellow sub­sidiary is not in­vest­ment property in con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments that include both the lessor and the lessee, because the property is owner-oc­cu­pied from the per­spec­tive of the group. However, such property could qualify as in­vest­ment property in the separate financial state­ments of the lessor, if the de­f­i­n­i­tion of in­vest­ment property is otherwise met. [IAS 40.15]
Recog­ni­tion
In­vest­ment property should be recog­nised as an asset when it is probable that the future economic benefits that are as­so­ci­ated with the property will flow to the entity, and the cost of the property can be reliably measured. [IAS 40.16]
Initial mea­sure­ment
In­vest­ment property is initially measured at cost, including trans­ac­tion costs. Such cost should not include start-up costs, abnormal waste, or initial operating losses incurred before the in­vest­ment property achieves the planned level of occupancy. [IAS 40.20 and 40.23]
Mea­sure­ment sub­se­quent to initial recog­ni­tion
IAS 40 permits entities to choose between: [IAS 40.30]
a fair value model, and
a cost model.
One method must be adopted for all of an entity's in­vest­ment property. Change is permitted only if this results in a more ap­pro­pri­ate pre­sen­ta­tion. IAS 40 notes that this is highly unlikely for a change from a fair value model to a cost model.
Fair value model
In­vest­ment property is re­mea­sured at fair value, which is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly trans­ac­tion between market par­tic­i­pants at the mea­sure­ment date. [IAS 40.5] Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of in­vest­ment property must be included in net profit or loss for the period in which it arises. [IAS 40.35]
Fair value should reflect the actual market state and cir­cum­stances as of the balance sheet date. [IAS 40.38] The best evidence of fair value is normally given by current prices on an active market for similar property in the same location and condition and subject to similar lease and other contracts. [IAS 40.45] In the absence of such in­for­ma­tion, the entity may consider current prices for prop­er­ties of a different nature or subject to different con­di­tions, recent prices on less active markets with ad­just­ments to reflect changes in economic con­di­tions, and dis­counted cash flow pro­jec­tions based on reliable estimates of future cash flows. [IAS 40.46]
There is a re­but­table pre­sump­tion that the entity will be able to determine the fair value of an in­vest­ment property reliably on a con­tin­u­ing basis. However: [IAS 40.53]
If an entity de­ter­mines that the fair value of an in­vest­ment property under con­struc­tion is not reliably de­ter­minable but expects the fair value of the property to be reliably de­ter­minable when con­struc­tion is complete, it measures that in­vest­ment property under con­struc­tion at cost until either its fair value becomes reliably de­ter­minable or con­struc­tion is completed.
If an entity de­ter­mines that the fair value of an in­vest­ment property (other than an in­vest­ment property under con­struc­tion) is not reliably de­ter­minable on a con­tin­u­ing basis, the entity shall measure that in­vest­ment property using the cost model in IAS 16. The residual value of the in­vest­ment property shall be assumed to be zero. The entity shall apply IAS 16 until disposal of the in­vest­ment property.
Where a property has pre­vi­ously been measured at fair value, it should continue to be measured at fair value until disposal, even if com­pa­ra­ble market trans­ac­tions become less frequent or market prices become less readily available. [IAS 40.55]
Cost model
After initial recog­ni­tion, in­vest­ment property is accounted for in ac­cor­dance with the cost model as set out in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment – cost less ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion and less ac­cu­mu­lated im­pair­ment losses. [IAS 40.56]
Transfers to or from in­vest­ment property clas­si­fi­ca­tion
Transfers to, or from, in­vest­ment property should only be made when there is a change in use, evidenced by one or more of the following: [IAS 40.57 (note that this list was changed from an ex­haus­tive list to an non-ex­haus­tive list of examples by Transfers of In­vest­ment Property in December 2016 effective 1 January 2018) ]
com­mence­ment of owner-oc­cu­pa­tion (transfer from in­vest­ment property to owner-oc­cu­pied property)
com­mence­ment of de­vel­op­ment with a view to sale (transfer from in­vest­ment property to in­ven­to­ries)
end of owner-oc­cu­pa­tion (transfer from owner-oc­cu­pied property to in­vest­ment property)
com­mence­ment of an operating lease to another party (transfer from in­ven­to­ries to in­vest­ment property)
end of con­struc­tion or de­vel­op­ment (transfer from property in the course of con­struc­tion/de­vel­op­ment to in­vest­ment property
When an entity decides to sell an in­vest­ment property without de­vel­op­ment, the property is not re­clas­si­fied as inventory but is dealt with as in­vest­ment property until it is dere­cog­nised. [IAS 40.58]
The following rules apply for accounting for transfers between cat­e­gories:
for a transfer from in­vest­ment property carried at fair value to owner-oc­cu­pied property or in­ven­to­ries, the fair value at the change of use is the 'cost' of the property under its new clas­si­fi­ca­tion [IAS 40.60]
for a transfer from owner-oc­cu­pied property to in­vest­ment property carried at fair value, IAS 16 should be applied up to the date of re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion. Any dif­fer­ence arising between the carrying amount under IAS 16 at that date and the fair value is dealt with as a reval­u­a­tion under IAS 16 [IAS 40.61]
for a transfer from in­ven­to­ries to in­vest­ment property at fair value, any dif­fer­ence between the fair value at the date of transfer and it previous carrying amount should be recog­nised in profit or loss [IAS 40.63]
when an entity completes con­struc­tion/de­vel­op­ment of an in­vest­ment property that will be carried at fair value, any dif­fer­ence between the fair value at the date of transfer and the previous carrying amount should be recog­nised in profit or loss. [IAS 40.65]
When an entity uses the cost model for in­vest­ment property, transfers between cat­e­gories do not change the carrying amount of the property trans­ferred, and they do not change the cost of the property for mea­sure­ment or dis­clo­sure purposes.
Disposal
An in­vest­ment property should be dere­cog­nised on disposal or when the in­vest­ment property is per­ma­nently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The gain or loss on disposal should be cal­cu­lated as the dif­fer­ence between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and should be recog­nised as income or expense in the income statement. [IAS 40.66 and 40.69] Com­pen­sa­tion from third parties is recog­nised when it becomes re­ceiv­able. [IAS 40.72]
Dis­clo­sure
Both Fair Value Model and Cost Model [IAS 40.75]
whether the fair value or the cost model is used
if the fair value model is used, whether property interests held under operating leases are clas­si­fied and accounted for as in­vest­ment property
if clas­si­fi­ca­tion is difficult, the criteria to dis­tin­guish in­vest­ment property from owner-oc­cu­pied property and from property held for sale
the extent to which the fair value of in­vest­ment property is based on a valuation by a qualified in­de­pen­dent valuer; if there has been no such valuation, that fact must be disclosed
the amounts recog­nised in profit or loss for:
rental income from in­vest­ment property
direct operating expenses (including repairs and main­te­nance) arising from in­vest­ment property that generated rental income during the period
direct operating expenses (including repairs and main­te­nance) arising from in­vest­ment property that did not generate rental income during the period
the cu­mu­la­tive change in fair value recog­nised in profit or loss on a sale from a pool of assets in which the cost model is used into a pool in which the fair value model is used
re­stric­tions on the re­al­is­abil­ity of in­vest­ment property or the re­mit­tance of income and proceeds of disposal
con­trac­tual oblig­a­tions to purchase, construct, or develop in­vest­ment property or for repairs, main­te­nance or en­hance­ments
Ad­di­tional Dis­clo­sures for the Fair Value Model [IAS 40.76]
a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion between the carrying amounts of in­vest­ment property at the beginning and end of the period, showing additions, disposals, fair value ad­just­ments, net foreign exchange dif­fer­ences, transfers to and from in­ven­to­ries and owner-oc­cu­pied property, and other changes [IAS 40.76]
sig­nif­i­cant ad­just­ments to an outside valuation (if any) [IAS 40.77]
if an entity that otherwise uses the fair value model measures an item of in­vest­ment property using the cost model, certain ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required [IAS 40.78]
Ad­di­tional Dis­clo­sures for the Cost Model [IAS 40.79]
the de­pre­ci­a­tion methods used
the useful lives or the de­pre­ci­a­tion rates used
the gross carrying amount and the ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion (ag­gre­gated with ac­cu­mu­lated im­pair­ment losses) at the beginning and end of the period
a rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of the carrying amount of in­vest­ment property at the beginning and end of the period, showing additions, disposals, de­pre­ci­a­tion, im­pair­ment recog­nised or reversed, foreign exchange dif­fer­ences, transfers to and from in­ven­to­ries and owner-oc­cu­pied property, and other changes
the fair value of in­vest­ment property. If the fair value of an item of in­vest­ment property cannot be measured reliably, ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required, including, if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie
IAS 41 — Agriculture
Quick Article Links
Overview
IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture sets out the accounting for agri­cul­tural activity – the trans­for­ma­tion of bi­o­log­i­cal assets (living plants and animals) into agri­cul­tural produce (harvested product of the entity's bi­o­log­i­cal assets). The standard generally requires bi­o­log­i­cal assets to be measured at fair value less costs to sell.
IAS 41 was orig­i­nally issued in December 2000 and first applied to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2003.
History of IAS 41
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
December 1999 Exposure Draft E65 Agri­cul­ture Comment deadline 31 January 2000
December 2000 IAS 41 Agri­cul­ture issued Operative for annual financial state­ments covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 2003
22 May 2008 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (discount rates) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
30 June 2014 Amended by Agri­cul­ture: Bearer Plants (Amend­ments to IAS 16 and IAS 41) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
14 May 2020 Amended by Annual Im­prove­ments to IFRS Standards 2018–2020 (taxation in fair value mea­sure­ments). Click for more in­for­ma­tion Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022
Related In­ter­pre­ta­tions
None
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
None
Summary of IAS 41
Objective
The objective of IAS 41 is to establish standards of accounting for agri­cul­tural activity – the man­age­ment of the bi­o­log­i­cal trans­for­ma­tion of bi­o­log­i­cal assets (living plants and animals) into agri­cul­tural produce (harvested product of the entity's bi­o­log­i­cal assets).

Scope
IAS 41 applies to bi­o­log­i­cal assets with the exception of bearer plants, agri­cul­tural produce at the point of harvest, and gov­ern­ment grants related to these bi­o­log­i­cal assets. It does not apply to land related to agri­cul­tural activity, in­tan­gi­ble assets related to agri­cul­tural activity, gov­ern­ment grants related to bearer plants, and bearer plants. However, it does apply to produce growing on bearer plants.
Note: Bearer plants were excluded from the scope of IAS 41 by Agri­cul­ture: Bearer Plants (Amend­ments to IAS 16 and IAS 41), which applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.

Key de­f­i­n­i­tions
[IAS 41.5]
Bi­o­log­i­cal asset A living animal or plant
Bearer plant* A living plant that:
is used in the pro­duc­tion or supply of agri­cul­tural produce
is expected to bear produce for more than one period, and
has a remote like­li­hood of being sold as agri­cul­tural produce, except for in­ci­den­tal scrap sales.
Agri­cul­tural produce The harvested product from bi­o­log­i­cal assets
Costs to sell The in­cre­men­tal costs directly at­trib­ut­able to the disposal of an asset, excluding finance costs and income taxes
* De­f­i­n­i­tion included by Agri­cul­ture: Bearer Plants (Amend­ments to IAS 16 and IAS 41), which applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.

Initial recog­ni­tion
An entity recog­nises a bi­o­log­i­cal asset or agri­cul­ture produce only when the entity controls the asset as a result of past events, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity, and the fair value or cost of the asset can be measured reliably. [IAS 41.10]
Mea­sure­ment
Bi­o­log­i­cal assets within the scope of IAS 41 are measured on initial recog­ni­tion and at sub­se­quent reporting dates at fair value less estimated costs to sell, unless fair value cannot be reliably measured. [IAS 41.12]
Agri­cul­tural produce is measured at fair value less estimated costs to sell at the point of harvest. [IAS 41.13] Because harvested produce is a mar­ketable commodity, there is no 'mea­sure­ment re­li­a­bil­ity' exception for produce.
The gain on initial recog­ni­tion of bi­o­log­i­cal assets at fair value less costs to sell, and changes in fair value less costs to sell of bi­o­log­i­cal assets during a period, are included in profit or loss. [IAS 41.26]
A gain on initial recog­ni­tion (e.g. as a result of har­vest­ing) of agri­cul­tural produce at fair value less costs to sell are included in profit or loss for the period in which it arises. [IAS 41.28]
All costs related to bi­o­log­i­cal assets that are measured at fair value are recog­nised as expenses when incurred, other than costs to purchase bi­o­log­i­cal assets.
IAS 41 presumes that fair value can be reliably measured for most bi­o­log­i­cal assets. However, that pre­sump­tion can be rebutted for a bi­o­log­i­cal asset that, at the time it is initially recog­nised, does not have a quoted market price in an active market and for which al­ter­na­tive fair value mea­sure­ments are de­ter­mined to be clearly un­re­li­able. In such a case, the asset is measured at cost less ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion and im­pair­ment losses. But the entity must still measure all of its other bi­o­log­i­cal assets at fair value less costs to sell. If cir­cum­stances change and fair value becomes reliably mea­sur­able, a switch to fair value less costs to sell is required. [IAS 41.30]
Guidance on the de­ter­mi­na­tion of fair value is available in IFRS 13 Fair Value Mea­sure­ment.  IFRS 13 also requires dis­clo­sures about fair value mea­sure­ments.
Other issues
The change in fair value of bi­o­log­i­cal assets is part physical change (growth, etc) and part unit price change. Separate dis­clo­sure of the two com­po­nents is en­cour­aged, not required. [IAS 41.51]
Agri­cul­tural produce is measured at fair value less costs to sell at harvest, and this mea­sure­ment is con­sid­ered the cost of the produce at that time (for the purposes of IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries or any other ap­plic­a­ble standard). [IAS 41.13]
Agri­cul­tural land is accounted for under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. However, bi­o­log­i­cal assets (other than bearer plants) that are phys­i­cally attached to land are measured as bi­o­log­i­cal assets separate from the land.  In some cases, the de­ter­mi­na­tion of the fair value less costs to sell of the bi­o­log­i­cal asset can be based on the fair value of the combined asset (land, im­prove­ments and bi­o­log­i­cal assets). [IAS 41.25]
In­tan­gi­ble assets relating to agri­cul­tural activity (for example, milk quotas) are accounted for under IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets.
Gov­ern­ment grants
Un­con­di­tional gov­ern­ment grants received in respect of bi­o­log­i­cal assets measured at fair value less costs to sell are recog­nised in profit or loss when the grant becomes re­ceiv­able. [IAS 41.34]
If such a grant is con­di­tional (including where the grant requires an entity not to engage in certain agri­cul­tural activity), the entity recog­nises the grant in profit or loss only when the con­di­tions have been met. [IAS 41.35]
Dis­clo­sure
Dis­clo­sure re­quire­ments in IAS 41 include:
aggregate gain or loss from the initial recog­ni­tion of bi­o­log­i­cal assets and agri­cul­tural produce and the change in fair value less costs to sell during the period* [IAS 41.40]
de­scrip­tion of an entity's bi­o­log­i­cal assets, by broad group [IAS 41.41]
de­scrip­tion of the nature of an entity's ac­tiv­i­ties with each group of bi­o­log­i­cal assets and non-fi­nan­cial measures or estimates of physical quan­ti­ties of output during the period and assets on hand at the end of the period [IAS 41.46]
in­for­ma­tion about bi­o­log­i­cal assets whose title is re­stricted or that are pledged as security [IAS 41.49]
com­mit­ments for de­vel­op­ment or ac­qui­si­tion of bi­o­log­i­cal assets [IAS 41.49]
financial risk man­age­ment strate­gies [IAS 41.49]
rec­on­cil­i­a­tion of changes in the carrying amount of bi­o­log­i­cal assets, showing sep­a­rately changes in value, purchases, sales, har­vest­ing, business com­bi­na­tions, and foreign exchange dif­fer­ences* [IAS 41.50]
* Separate and/or ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required where bi­o­log­i­cal assets are measured at cost less ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion [IAS 41.55]
Dis­clo­sure of a quan­ti­fied de­scrip­tion of each group of bi­o­log­i­cal assets, dis­tin­guish­ing between con­sum­able and bearer assets or between mature and immature assets, is en­cour­aged but not required. [IAS 41.43]
If fair value cannot be measured reliably, ad­di­tional required dis­clo­sures include: [IAS 41.54]
de­scrip­tion of the assets
an ex­pla­na­tion of why fair value cannot be reliably measured
if possible, a range within which fair value is highly likely to lie
de­pre­ci­a­tion method
useful lives or de­pre­ci­a­tion rates
gross carrying amount and the ac­cu­mu­lated de­pre­ci­a­tion, beginning and ending.
If the fair value of bi­o­log­i­cal assets pre­vi­ously measured at cost sub­se­quently becomes available, certain ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures are required. [IAS 41.56]
Dis­clo­sures relating to gov­ern­ment grants include the nature and extent of grants, un­ful­filled con­di­tions, and sig­nif­i­cant decreases expected in the level of grants. [IAS 41.57]
IFRIC 1 — Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
4 September 2003 IFRIC D2 Changes in De­com­mis­sion­ing, Restora­tion and Similar Li­a­bil­i­ties published Comment deadline 3 November 2003
27 May 2004 IFRIC 1 Changes in De­com­mis­sion­ing, Restora­tion and Similar Li­a­bil­i­ties issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 September 2004
Summary of IFRIC 1
IFRIC 1 contains guidance on accounting for changes in de­com­mis­sion­ing, restora­tion and similar li­a­bil­i­ties that have pre­vi­ously been recog­nised both as part of the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment under IAS 16 and as a provision (liability) under IAS 37. An example would be a liability that was recog­nised by the operator of a nuclear power plant for costs that it expects to incur in the future when the plant is shut down (de­com­mis­sioned). The in­ter­pre­ta­tion addresses sub­se­quent changes to the amount of the liability that may arise from (a) a revision in the timing or amount of the estimated de­com­mis­sion­ing or restora­tion costs or from (b) a change in the current mar­ket-based discount rate.
IAS 37 requires the amount recog­nised as a provision to be the best estimate of the ex­pen­di­ture required to settle the oblig­a­tion at the balance sheet date. This is measured at its present value, which IFRIC 1 confirms should be measured using a current mar­ket-based discount rate. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion deals with three kinds of change in an existing liability for such costs.
The two main kinds of change dealt with in the In­ter­pre­ta­tion are those that arise from:
the revision of estimated outflows of resources embodying economic benefits. For example, the estimated costs of de­com­mis­sion­ing a nuclear power plant may vary sig­nif­i­cantly both in timing and amount
revisions to the current mar­ket-based discount rate.
Most entities account for their property, plant and equipment using the cost model. Where this is so, these changes are required to be cap­i­talised as part of the cost of the item and de­pre­ci­ated prospec­tively over the remaining life of the item to which they relate. This is con­sis­tent with the treatment under IAS 16 of other changes in estimate relating to property, plant and equipment.
In the spirit of con­ver­gence, the IFRIC con­sid­ered the US GAAP approach in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143 Accounting for Asset Re­tire­ment Oblig­a­tions. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion treats changes in estimated cash flows in a similar way to SFAS 143. However, SFAS 143 does not require any ad­just­ment to the cost of the item, or to the provision, to reflect the effect of a change in the current mar­ket-based discount rate. The IFRIC did not choose this approach because IAS 37, unlike US GAAP, requires pro­vi­sions to be measured at the current best estimate, which should reflect current discount rates. Also, the IFRIC con­sid­ered it important that both kinds of change should be dealt with in the same way.
Where entities account for their property, plant and equipment using the fair value model, a change in the liability does not affect the valuation of the item for accounting purposes. Instead, it alters the reval­u­a­tion surplus or deficit on the item, which is the dif­fer­ence between its valuation and what would be its carrying amount under the cost model. The effect of the change is treated con­sis­tently with other reval­u­a­tion surpluses or deficits. Any cu­mu­la­tive deficit is taken to profit or loss, but any cu­mu­la­tive surplus is credited to equity.
The third kind of change dealt with by the In­ter­pre­ta­tion is an increase in the liability that reflects the passage of time - also referred to as the unwinding of the discount. This is recog­nised in profit or loss as a finance cost as it occurs.
IFRIC 2 — Members' Shares in Co-operative Entities and Similar Instruments
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
20 September 2003 IFRIC D8 Members' Shares in Co-op­er­a­tive Entities published Comment deadline 13 September 2004
25 November 2004 IFRIC 2 Members' Shares in Co-op­er­a­tive Entities and Similar In­stru­ments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005
Summary of IFRIC 2
Members' shares in co-op­er­a­tive entities have some char­ac­ter­is­tics of equity. They also give the holder the right to request re­demp­tion for cash, although that right may be subject to certain lim­i­ta­tions.  IFRIC 2 gives guidance on how those re­demp­tion terms should be evaluated in de­ter­min­ing whether the shares should be clas­si­fied as financial li­a­bil­i­ties or as equity.
Under IFRIC 2, shares for which the member has the right to request re­demp­tion are normally li­a­bil­i­ties. However, they are equity if:
the entity has an un­con­di­tional right to refuse re­demp­tion, or
local law, reg­u­la­tion, or the entity's governing charter imposes pro­hi­bi­tions on re­demp­tion. But the mere existence of law, reg­u­la­tion, or charter pro­vi­sions that would prohibit re­demp­tion only if con­di­tions (such as liquidity con­straints) are met, or are not met, does not result in members' shares being equity.
IFRIC 3 — Emission Rights (withdrawn)
Quick Article Links
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 at its meeting in June 2005. Click for More In­for­ma­tion
Ref­er­ences
IAS 20 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance (re­for­mat­ted 1994)
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets (1998)
IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets (1998)
History
Draft In­ter­pre­ta­tion D1 Emission Rights is IFRIC's first draft In­ter­pre­ta­tion.
IFRIC D1 was issued 15 May 2003
Comment Deadline 14 July 2003
Click for Press Release on IFRIC D1 (PDF 29k).
IFRIC In­ter­pre­ta­tion 3 Emission Rights issued 2 December 2004. Click for Press Release on IFRIC 3 (PDF 38k).
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2005
Discussed at the IFRIC June 2005 Meeting
Discussed at the IASB June 2005 Meeting at which time IFRIC 3 was Withdrawn.
Summary of IFRIC 3
In the light of the Kyoto agreement, several gov­ern­ments have, or are in the process of de­vel­op­ing, schemes to encourage re­duc­tions in green­house gas emissions. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion focuses on the accounting to be adopted by par­tic­i­pants in a 'cap and trade' scheme, although some of its re­quire­ments might be relevant to other schemes that are also designed to encourage reduced levels of emissions and share some of the features of a cap and trade scheme.
Typically in cap and trade schemes, a gov­ern­ment (or gov­ern­ment agency) issues rights (al­lowances) to par­tic­i­pat­ing entities to emit a specified level of emissions. (The gov­ern­ment may issue the al­lowances free of charge or the par­tic­i­pant may be required to pay for them). Par­tic­i­pants in the scheme are able to buy and sell al­lowances and therefore, in many schemes, there is an active market for the al­lowances. At the end of a specified period, par­tic­i­pants are required to deliver al­lowances equal to their actual emissions.
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion specifies that:
rights (al­lowances) are in­tan­gi­ble assets that should be recog­nised in the financial state­ments in ac­cor­dance with IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets.
when al­lowances are issued to a par­tic­i­pant by gov­ern­ment (or gov­ern­ment agency) for less than their fair value, the dif­fer­ence between the amount paid (if any) and their fair value is a gov­ern­ment grant that is accounted for in ac­cor­dance IAS 20 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance.
as a par­tic­i­pant produces emissions, it recog­nises a provision for its oblig­a­tion to deliver al­lowances in ac­cor­dance with IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets. This provision is normally measured at the market value of the al­lowances needed to settle it.
Dis­cus­sion at the June 2005 IFRIC Meeting
In June 2005 the IFRIC discussed two papers:
A proposed amendment to IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets that would create an ad­di­tional category of in­tan­gi­bles measured at fair value through profit and loss, and
A proposal from EFRAG as to how hedge accounting could be used to resolve the mismatch issues created by IFRIC 3.
At its February 2005 meeting the IFRIC had agreed to prepare a limited amendment to IAS 38, despite the pref­er­ence of some members for the reval­u­a­tion model contained in that standard to be com­pletely revisited. It was noted that the effect of the proposed amendment was to move the gains and losses into the same place (profit and loss); however the timing might still have a mismatch because of the at the beginning of the period an asset exists, for which fair value gains and losses must be recog­nised, however the cor­re­spond­ing liability builds up over the period.
EFRAG presented a paper proposing to include emission rights within a hedge accounting model, that would use the prin­ci­ples of cash flow hedging to deal with this issue. There was support from a number of IFRIC members; however, many expressed re­luc­tance to take the project further until the IASB had been ex­plic­itly consulted as whether they con­sid­ered this an ap­pro­pri­ate project to pursue.
It was noted that the amendment to IAS 38 in itself is in­suf­fi­cient to alleviate the concerns raised by EFRAG, but is not in­com­pat­i­ble with the EFRAG proposals. Ac­cord­ingly, the amendment to IAS 38 would solve part of the problem for entities that do not pursue hedge accounting. It was noted that if the hedging proposal was used, it would be difficult to mandate hedging (as entities could fail el­i­gi­bil­ity for hedging on a number of criteria, par­tic­u­larly forecast usage), and therefore this might open up more options. It was agreed that in principle hedge accounting should be required where certain facts and cir­cum­stances exist, with a default treatment being required if an entity fails to meet the hedge accounting re­quire­ments.
The IFRIC agreed that the staff should continue with the proposal to amend IAS 38, subject to sat­is­fy­ing them­selves that the amendment is necessary ir­re­spec­tive of whether the hedging method­ol­ogy is in­tro­duced, and that the result of such an amendment is not to back IFRIC into a corner such that their options for in­tro­duc­ing the hedging rules are limited. Staff agreed to check with the financial in­stru­ment team whether it was ap­pro­pri­ate to use cash flow hedging during the period when the entity has only the al­lowances, and fair value hedging after the emissions have been made.
The IFRIC noted that there are other issues, such as the ap­pro­pri­ate initial recog­ni­tion date, however did not seek to resolve these issues at this time.
Dis­cus­sion at the June 2005 IASB Meeting - With­drawal of IFRIC 3
At the June 2005 IASB meeting, the IFRIC staff in­tro­duced the topic by outlining the de­vel­op­ment of IFRIC 3 and the sub­se­quent de­vel­op­ments within the European Union, including the fact that EFRAG Rec­om­mended (PDF 303k) that IFRIC 3 not be endorsed for use in the EU. There followed a long and vigorous debate during which several al­ter­na­tive treat­ments were proposed.
Board Members ac­knowl­edged that IFRIC 3 had expressed a correct and ap­pro­pri­ate in­ter­pre­ta­tion of existing standards. Board Members expressed similar reser­va­tions over the effects of that In­ter­pre­ta­tion to those that had been expressed by IFRIC members at the time it was finalised but observed that they, like IFRIC, had been under the im­pres­sion at the time that an In­ter­pre­ta­tion was needed urgently because of the imminent start of the EU 'cap and trade' scheme. However, it was apparent that this urgency was no longer there. Con­se­quently, the Board decided to take the time to conduct a broader as­sess­ment of the nature of the various volatil­i­ties resulting from the ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRIC 3 to a 'cap and trade' scheme and to consider whether and how it might be ap­pro­pri­ate to amend existing standards to reduce or eliminate some of those volatil­i­ties.
The Board voted to withdraw IFRIC 3 with a public ex­pla­na­tion of its plans to conduct such wider as­sess­ment (12 in favour; 1 opposed; 1 abstained). How this with­drawal is to be effected will be decided at the July IASB meeting.
In July 2005 the Board issued a Public Statement on With­drawal of IFRIC 3 (PDF 42k).
Dis­cus­sion at the July 2005 IASB Meeting
During dis­cus­sion of the Board's agenda plan, it was indicated that the Board intends to issue an exposure draft in the first half of 2006. Whether the approach will be amendment of IAS 38 or of IAS 39 remains to be decided.
Sub­se­quent Decision by the IASB
Starting in 2005, and con­tin­u­ing into 2007, the Board's Work Plan has indicated that re­con­sid­er­a­tion of IFRIC 3 "has been deferred pending the con­clu­sion of work on other relevant projects".
IFRIC 4 — Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease
Quick Article Links
Note: IFRIC 4 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases as of 1 January 2019.
Ref­er­ences
IAS 17 Leases
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
15 January 2004 IFRIC D3 De­ter­min­ing Whether an Arrange­ment Contains a Lease published Comment deadline 19 March 2004
2 December 2004 IFRIC 4 De­ter­min­ing Whether an Arrange­ment Contains a Lease issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
1 January 2019
IFRIC 4 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases
Summary of IFRIC 4
In recent years arrange­ments have developed that do not take the legal form of a lease but which convey rights to use assets in return for a payment or series of payments. Examples of such arrange­ments include:
out­sourc­ing arrange­ments;
telecom­mu­ni­ca­tion contracts that provide rights to capacity; and
take-or-pay and similar contracts, in which pur­chasers must make specified payments re­gard­less of whether they take delivery of the con­tracted products or services.
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion specifies that an arrange­ment that meets the following criteria is, or contains, a lease that should be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 17 Leases:
Ful­fil­ment of the arrange­ment depends upon a specific asset. The asset need not be ex­plic­itly iden­ti­fied by the con­trac­tual pro­vi­sions of the arrange­ment. Rather it may be im­plic­itly specified because it is not eco­nom­i­cally feasible or practical for the supplier to fulfil the arrange­ment by providing use of al­ter­na­tive assets.
The arrange­ment conveys a right to control the use of the un­der­ly­ing asset. This is the case if any of the following con­di­tions is met:
the purchaser in the arrange­ment has the ability or right to operate the asset or direct others to operate the asset (while obtaining more than an in­signif­i­cant amount of the output of the asset)
the purchaser has the ability or right to control physical access to the asset (while obtaining more than an in­signif­i­cant amount of the output of the asset)
there is only a remote pos­si­bil­ity that parties other than the purchaser will take more than an in­signif­i­cant amount of the output of the asset and the price that the purchaser will pay is neither fixed per unit of output nor equal to the current market price at the time of delivery.
IFRIC 5 — Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates
IAS 31 Interests In Joint Ventures
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
SIC 12 Con­sol­i­da­tion – Special Purpose Entities
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
15 January 2004 IFRIC D4 De­com­mis­sion­ing, Restora­tion and En­vi­ron­men­tal Re­ha­bil­i­ta­tion Funds published Comment deadline 19 March 2004
16 December 2004 IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests Arising from De­com­mis­sion­ing, Restora­tion and En­vi­ron­men­tal Re­ha­bil­i­ta­tion Funds issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006
Summary of IFRIC 5
Some entities have oblig­a­tions to de­com­mis­sion assets or to perform en­vi­ron­men­tal restora­tion or re­ha­bil­i­ta­tion. Some such entities con­tribute to a fund es­tab­lished to reimburse the de­com­mis­sion­ing, restora­tion or re­ha­bil­i­ta­tion costs when they are incurred. The fund may be set up to meet the de­com­mis­sion­ing costs of a single con­trib­u­tor or for many con­trib­u­tors.
The issues addressed in IFRIC 5 are:
How should a con­trib­u­tor account for its interest in a fund?
When a con­trib­u­tor has an oblig­a­tion to make ad­di­tional con­tri­bu­tions, how should that oblig­a­tion be accounted for?
Under IFRIC 5:
If an entity recog­nises a de­com­mis­sion­ing oblig­a­tion under IFRSs and con­tributes to a fund to segregate assets to pay for the oblig­a­tion, it should apply IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments, SIC 12 Con­sol­i­da­tion - Special Purpose Entities, IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates, and IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, to determine whether de­com­mis­sion­ing funds should be con­sol­i­dated, pro­por­tion­ately con­sol­i­dated or accounted for under the equity method.
When a fund is not con­sol­i­dated, pro­por­tion­ately con­sol­i­dated, or accounted for under the equity method, and that fund does not relieve the con­trib­u­tor of its oblig­a­tion to pay de­com­mis­sion­ing costs, the con­trib­u­tor should recognise:
its oblig­a­tion to pay de­com­mis­sion­ing costs as a liability, and
its rights to receive re­im­burse­ment from the fund as a re­im­burse­ment under IAS 37.
A right to re­im­burse­ment should be measured at the lower of (i) the amount of the de­com­mis­sion­ing oblig­a­tion recog­nised and (ii) the con­trib­u­tor's share of the fair value of the net assets of the fund. Changes in the carrying amount of this right (other than con­tri­bu­tions to and payments from the funds) should be recog­nised in profit or loss.
When a con­trib­u­tor has an oblig­a­tion to make potential ad­di­tional con­tri­bu­tions to the fund, that oblig­a­tion is a con­tin­gent liability within the scope of IAS 37. When it becomes probable that the ad­di­tional con­tri­bu­tions will be made, a provision should be recog­nised.
IFRIC 5 amends IAS 39 to exclude from its scope rights to re­im­burse­ment for ex­pen­di­ture required to settle a liability recog­nised as a provision. Such rights will be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 37.
IFRIC 6 — Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Specific Market – Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
25 November 2004 IFRIC D10 Li­a­bil­i­ties Arising from Par­tic­i­pat­ing in a Specific Market – Waste Elec­tri­cal and Elec­tronic Equipment published Comment deadline 11 February 2005
1 September 2005 IFRIC 6 Li­a­bil­i­ties Arising from Par­tic­i­pat­ing in a Specific Market – Waste Elec­tri­cal and Elec­tronic Equipment issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 December 2005
IAS Plus Newslet­ter
September 2005 – Special Global Edition – IFRIC 6 on Waste Man­age­ment Costs (PDF 51k)
Summary of IFRIC 6
IFRIC 6 clarifies when certain producers of elec­tri­cal goods are required to recognise a liability under IAS 37 for the cost of waste man­age­ment relating to the de­com­mis­sion­ing of waste elec­tri­cal and elec­tronic equipment supplied to private house­holds.
The European Union's Directive on Waste Elec­tri­cal and Elec­tronic Equipment (WE&EE) has raised questions about when the liability of certain elec­tri­cal goods man­u­fac­tur­ers for the de­com­mis­sion­ing of such waste should be recog­nised. The Directive pre­scribes that the cost of waste man­age­ment for equipment that has been sold to private house­holds before 13 August 2005 should be borne by producers of that type of equipment that are in the market during the period specified in the ap­plic­a­ble leg­is­la­tion of the in­di­vid­ual member state (the mea­sure­ment period). The man­u­fac­tur­ers have to con­tribute to costs in pro­por­tion to their re­spec­tive share of the market by type of equipment.
The issue that IFRIC 6 addresses is: if an entity has an oblig­a­tion to con­tribute to waste man­age­ment costs based on its share of the market in a mea­sure­ment period, what is the event under paragraph 14(a) of IAS 37 that gives rise to a liability:
the man­u­fac­ture or sale of the his­tor­i­cal household equipment?
par­tic­i­pa­tion in the market during the mea­sure­ment period?
the in­cur­rence of costs in the per­for­mance of waste man­age­ment ac­tiv­i­ties?
IFRIC 6 concludes that the event that triggers liability recog­ni­tion is par­tic­i­pa­tion in the market during the mea­sure­ment period. The mea­sure­ment period is a period in which market shares are de­ter­mined for the purposes of al­lo­cat­ing waste man­age­ment costs. IFRIC 6 states that it is this date, rather than the date of pro­duc­tion of the equipment or in­cur­rence of costs, that is the trig­ger­ing event for liability recog­ni­tion.
Examples
Country A de­ter­mines that producers within its ju­ris­dic­tion will be re­spon­si­ble for 'his­tor­i­cal' household waste man­age­ment costs in pro­por­tion to their re­spec­tive share of the market for that type of equipment in each calendar year. The gov­ern­ment notifies par­tic­i­pants in the relevant markets in February each year of their market share for the im­me­di­ately preceding calendar year. Waste man­age­ment costs for the current year are allocated on this basis.
Company Z began op­er­a­tions in September 2005 and man­u­fac­tures domestic washing machines. Even though it was not re­spon­si­ble for producing any 'his­tor­i­cal' WE&EE, because it par­tic­i­pates in the market currently it will con­tribute to the cost of recycling his­tor­i­cal WE&EE in pro­por­tion to its market share during the mea­sure­ment period.
Company T ceased to produce domestic re­frig­er­a­tors in 2004. Because T no longer produces domestic re­frig­er­a­tors (i.e., its market share is zero), it has no oblig­a­tion to fund the col­lec­tion and recycling of his­tor­i­cal WE&EE it produced.
The IFRIC's con­clu­sion on this issue is a pragmatic one. The WE&EE Directive attaches the liability for the disposal of his­tor­i­cal waste to currently active producers and dis­trib­u­tors on the basis of their current market share – ir­re­spec­tive of the extent of their par­tic­i­pa­tion in the market at the time the equipment was produced. To apply the Directive ret­ro­spec­tively was not thought prac­ti­ca­ble. Working with this result, the IFRIC de­ter­mined that the only workable 'past event' (required by IAS 37 for recog­nis­ing a liability) was current par­tic­i­pa­tion in the market, evidenced by sales in that market.
IFRIC 6 is effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 December 2005. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is en­cour­aged.
On 20 May 2013, the IASB published IFRIC 21 Levies, which is ap­plic­a­ble to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion does not supersede IFRIC 6, which remains in force and is con­sis­tent with IFRIC 21. The IFRS In­ter­pre­ta­tions Committee believes IFRIC 6 provides useful in­for­ma­tion on accounting for li­a­bil­i­ties within its scope.
 
IFRIC 7 — Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
11 March 2004 IFRIC D5 Applying IAS 29 'Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies' for the First Time published Comment deadline 14 May 2004
24 November 2005 IFRIC 7 Applying the Re­state­ment Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2006
IAS Plus Newslet­ter
September 2005 – Special Global Edition – IFRIC 7 on Applying the Re­state­ment Approach under IAS 29 (PDF 51k)
Summary of IFRIC 7
IAS 29 requires that the financial state­ments of an entity that reports in the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy should be stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the balance sheet date. Com­par­a­tive figures for prior period(s) should be restated into the same current measuring unit. IFRIC 7 contains guidance on how an entity would restate its financial state­ments in the first year it iden­ti­fies the existence of hy­per­in­fla­tion in the economy of its func­tional currency.
The re­state­ment approach on which IAS 29 is based dis­tin­guishes between monetary and non-mon­e­tary items. However, in practice there has been un­cer­tainty about how an entity goes about restating its financial state­ments for the first time, es­pe­cially deferred tax balances and com­par­a­tives.
The main re­quire­ments of the In­ter­pre­ta­tion are:
In the period in which the economy of an entity's func­tional currency becomes hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary, the entity shall apply the re­quire­ments of IAS 29 as though the economy had always been hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary. The effect of this re­quire­ment is that re­state­ments of non-mon­e­tary items carried at his­tor­i­cal cost are made from the dates at which those items were first recog­nised; for other non-mon­e­tary items the re­state­ments are made from the dates at which revised current values for those items were es­tab­lished.
Deferred tax amounts in the opening balance sheet are de­ter­mined in two stages:
a. Deferred tax items are re­mea­sured in ac­cor­dance with IAS 12 Income Taxes after restating the nominal carrying amounts of the non-mon­e­tary items in the opening balance sheet by applying the measuring unit at that date.
b. The deferred tax items re­mea­sured in this way are restated for the change in the measuring unit from the date of the opening balance sheet to the date of the closing balance sheet.
IFRIC 7 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2006. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is en­cour­aged.
IFRIC 8 — Scope of IFRS 2
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
19 May 2005 IFRIC D16 Scope of IFRS 2 published Comment deadline 18 July 2005
12 January 2006 IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006
18 June 2009 Withdrawn by Group Cash-set­tled Share-based Payment Trans­ac­tions (Amend­ments to IFRS 2) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
  Summary of IFRIC 8
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 clarifies that IFRS 2 applies to arrange­ments where an entity makes share-based payments for ap­par­ently nil or in­ad­e­quate con­sid­er­a­tion.
IFRIC 8 explains that, if the iden­ti­fi­able con­sid­er­a­tion given appears to be less than the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments granted or liability incurred, this situation typically indicates that other con­sid­er­a­tion has been or will be received. IFRS 2 therefore applies.
IFRIC 8 was effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006, and su­per­seded by amend­ments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment with effect from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
IFRIC 9 — Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
31 March 2005 IFRIC D15 Re­assess­ment of Embedded De­riv­a­tives published Comment deadline 31 May 2005
1 March 2006 IFRIC 9 Re­assess­ment of Embedded De­riv­a­tives issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006
23 December 2008 Exposure Draft Embedded De­riv­a­tives (Proposed amend­ments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39) published Comment deadline 21 January 2009
30 January 2009 Exposure Draft ED/2009/1 Post-im­ple­men­ta­tion Revisions to IFRIC In­ter­pre­ta­tions (Proposed amend­ments to IFRIC 9 and IFRIC 16) published Comment deadline 3 March 2009
12 March 2009 Amended by Embedded De­riv­a­tives (Amend­ments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39)
(re­assess­ment on re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion) Effective for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009
16 April 2009 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (scope of IFRIC 9 and revised IFRS 3) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
28 October 2010 With the pub­li­ca­tion of the re­quire­ments for the accounting of financial li­a­bil­i­ties, the re­quire­ments of IFRIC 9 were trans­ferred with the same content to IFRS 9 and the in­ter­pre­ta­tion was withdrawn with IFRS 9 coming into effect into effect
  IAS Plus Newslet­ter
March 2006 – Special Global Edition – IFRIC 9 Re­assess­ment of Embedded De­riv­a­tives (PDF 58k)
Summary of IFRIC 9
An embedded de­riv­a­tive as a component of a hybrid (combined) financial in­stru­ment that also includes a non-de­riv­a­tive host contract. Some of the cash flows of the combined in­stru­ment vary in a way similar to a stand-alone de­riv­a­tive.
An example is the con­ver­sion option in con­vert­ible debt. The fair value of the con­vert­ible (hybrid) in­stru­ment changes, in part, with movements in the fair value of the equity shares into which it is con­vert­ible - which would be similar to a stand-alone option.
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment requires an entity, when it first becomes a party to a hybrid contract, to assess whether any embedded de­riv­a­tives contained in the contract are required to be separated from the host contract and accounted for as if they were stand-alone de­riv­a­tives.
IFRIC 9 addresses:
whether IAS 39 requires such an as­sess­ment to be made only when the entity first becomes a party to the hybrid contract, or whether the as­sess­ment be re­con­sid­ered through­out the life of the contract
whether a first-time adopter of IFRSs should make its as­sess­ment on the basis of the con­di­tions that existed when the entity first became a party to the contract, or those pre­vail­ing when the entity adopts IFRSs for the first time.
IFRIC 9 concludes that an entity must assess whether an embedded de­riv­a­tive is required to be separated from the host contract and accounted for as a de­riv­a­tive when the entity first becomes a party to the contract. Sub­se­quent re­assess­ment is pro­hib­ited unless there is a change in the terms of the contract that sig­nif­i­cantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, in which case re­assess­ment is required.
A first-time adopter must assess whether an embedded de­riv­a­tive is required to be separated on the basis of the con­di­tions that existed at the date it first became a party to the contract, unless there was a sub­se­quent change in terms of the contract that sig­nif­i­cantly modified the cash flows.
IFRIC 9 was effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 June 2006. IFRIC 9 becomes in­ef­fec­tive upon first-time mandatory ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRS 9.
Dis­cus­sion at the December 2008 IASB Meeting
The Board agreed to propose a fast-track amendment to IFRIC 9 to make clear that, on Re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion, an entity is required to assess whether an embedded de­riv­a­tive must be sep­a­rately accounted for under IAS 39. The amendment will be effective for periods ending on or after 15 December 2008.
December 2008: IASB exposure draft on embedded de­riv­a­tives
On 22 December 2008, the IASB proposed to amend IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment to clarify the accounting treatment for embedded de­riv­a­tives. The proposals are set out in an exposure draft Embedded De­riv­a­tives, on which the IASB invites comments by 21 January 2009. The exposure draft can be down­loaded from the IASB's Website. The IASB is issuing this ED to prevent any diversity in practice de­vel­op­ing as a result of the amend­ments made to IAS 39 in October 2008 to permit the re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion of par­tic­u­lar financial assets. The proposals published today would require all embedded de­riv­a­tives to be assessed, including those embedded in re­clas­si­fied in­stru­ments, and, if necessary, sep­a­rately accounted for in financial state­ments. Click for Press Release (PDF 44k).
Amendment to IFRIC 9 Proposed at IASB January 2009 Meeting - Re­assess­ment of Embedded De­riv­a­tives
The Board agreed that an amendment to paragraph 5 of IFRIC 9 Re­assess­ment of Embedded De­riv­a­tives was necessary to clarify that the scope of IFRIC 9 excludes contracts with embedded de­riv­a­tives acquired in a com­bi­na­tion between entities under common control or in the formation of a joint venture. With the revised de­f­i­n­i­tion of a 'business' in IFRS 3 (2008), the formation of a joint venture was brought within the scope of IFRIC 9, something that the Board had not addressed specif­i­cally as it developed IFRS 3 (2008).
The Board agreed that the scope of IFRIC 9 should be amended to read as follows:
5. This in­ter­pre­ta­tion does not apply to the ac­qui­si­tion of contracts with embedded de­riv­a­tives in:
  a. a business com­bi­na­tion;
b. a com­bi­na­tion of entities or busi­nesses under common control as described in para­graphs B1-B4 of IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions (as revised in 2008); or
c. the formation of a joint venture as defined in IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures
nor their possible re­assess­ment at the date of ac­qui­si­tion.
So this amendment can be in place in time for the effective date of IFRS 3 (2008) – 1 July 2009 – the Board agreed that it should issue an exposure draft of the proposals for a 30-day comment period (the minimum permitted by the IASB's Due Process Handbook).
Amendment to IFRIC 9 Proposed at IASB January 2009 Meeting – Scope Exclusion in Business Com­bi­na­tions
Based on dis­cus­sions at its January 2009 Meeting, on 30 January 2009 the Board issued exposure draft ED/2009/1 proposing to exclude from the scope of IFRIC 9 embedded de­riv­a­tives in contracts acquired in com­bi­na­tions of entities or busi­nesses under common control or in the formation of a joint venture. The proposed effective date is annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 – in time for the effective date of IFRS 3 (2008). Comment deadline is 2 March 2009. Click for More In­for­ma­tion.
March 2009: IFRIC 9 amended for embedded de­riv­a­tives on re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion
On 12 March 2009, the IASB published amend­ments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 to clarify the accounting treatment of embedded de­riv­a­tives for entities that make use of the Re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion Amendment to IAS 39 issued by the IASB in October 2008. The re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion amendment allows entities to re­clas­sify par­tic­u­lar financial in­stru­ments out of the 'fair value through profit or loss' category in specific cir­cum­stances. These amend­ments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 clarify that on re­clas­si­fi­ca­tion of a financial asset out of the 'fair value through profit or loss' category, all embedded de­riv­a­tives have to be assessed and, if necessary, sep­a­rately accounted for in financial state­ments. The amend­ments apply ret­ro­spec­tively and are required to be applied for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009. Click for the IASB Press Release (PDF 22k).
IFRIC 10 — Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
IFRS 9 Financial In­stru­ments
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
12 January 2006 IFRIC D18 Interim Financial Reporting and Im­pair­ment published Comment deadline 31 March 2006
20 July 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Im­pair­ment issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006
IAS Plus Newslet­ter
August 2006 – Special Edition – IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Im­pair­ment (PDF 49k)
Summary of IFRIC 10
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion addresses an apparent conflict between the re­quire­ments of IAS 34 and those in other standards on the recog­ni­tion and reversal in financial state­ments of im­pair­ment losses on goodwill and certain financial assets.
IFRIC 10 concludes that:
An entity shall not reverse an im­pair­ment loss recog­nised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or an in­vest­ment in either an equity in­stru­ment or a financial asset carried at cost.
An entity shall not extend this consensus by analogy to other areas of potential conflict between IAS 34 and other standards.
Note: Con­se­quen­tial amend­ments have been made to IFRIC 10 by IFRS 9. Ac­cord­ingly, entities that have adopted IFRS 9 (mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) apply the guidance above only in respect of goodwill and not equity in­stru­ments or financial assets carried at cost.
IFRIC 10 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is en­cour­aged.
IFRIC 11 — IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
19 May 2005 IFRIC D17 IFRS 2 — Group and Treasury Share Trans­ac­tions published Comment deadline 18 July 2005
2 November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Trans­ac­tions issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007
18 June 2009 Su­per­seded by Group Cash-set­tled Share-based Payment Trans­ac­tions (see IFRS 2 Share-based Payment) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010
Summary of IFRIC 11
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on applying IFRS 2 in three cir­cum­stances:
Share-based payment involving an entity's own equity in­stru­ments in which the entity chooses or is required to buy its own equity in­stru­ments (treasury shares) to settle the share-based payment oblig­a­tion - is this an eq­uity-set­tled or cash-set­tled trans­ac­tion?
A parent grants rights to its equity in­stru­ments to employees of its sub­sidiary – how to account in the in­di­vid­ual entities' financial state­ments?
A sub­sidiary grants rights to equity in­stru­ments of its parent to its employees – how to account in the in­di­vid­ual entities' financial state­ments?
Share-based payment involving an entity's own equity in­stru­ments in which the entity chooses or is required to buy its own equity in­stru­ments (treasury shares) to settle the share-based payment oblig­a­tion
These should always be accounted for as eq­uity-set­tled share-based payment trans­ac­tions under IFRS 2.
A parent grants rights to its equity in­stru­ments to employees of its sub­sidiary
Assuming the trans­ac­tion is accounted for as eq­uity-set­tled in the con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, the sub­sidiary must measure the services received using the re­quire­ments for eq­uity-set­tled trans­ac­tions in IFRS 2, and must recognise a cor­re­spond­ing increase in equity as a con­tri­bu­tion from the parent.
A sub­sidiary grants rights to equity in­stru­ments of its parent to its employees
The sub­sidiary accounts for the trans­ac­tion as a cash-set­tled share-based payment trans­ac­tion.
Therefore, in the sub­sidiary's in­di­vid­ual financial state­ments, the accounting treatment of trans­ac­tions in which a sub­sidiary's employees are granted rights to equity in­stru­ments of its parent would differ, depending on whether the parent or the sub­sidiary granted those rights to the sub­sidiary's employees. This is because the IFRIC concluded that, in the former situation, the sub­sidiary has not incurred a liability to transfer cash or other assets of the entity to its employees, whereas it has incurred such a liability in the latter situation (being a liability to transfer equity in­stru­ments of its parent).
Effective date
IFRIC 11 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
IFRIC 12 — Service Concession Arrangements
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
IFRS 7 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sures
Framework for the Prepa­ra­tion and Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments (in September 2010, replaced by Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting)
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
IAS 11 Con­struc­tion Contracts
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment
IAS 17 Leases
IAS 18 Revenue
IAS 20 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
IFRIC 4 De­ter­min­ing whether an Arrange­ment contains a Lease
SIC 29 Dis­clo­sure - Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
3 March 2005 IFRIC D12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments - De­ter­min­ing the Accounting Model, IFRIC D13 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments - the Financial Asset Model and IFRIC D14 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments - the In­tan­gi­ble Asset Model published Comment deadline 31 May 2005
30 November 2006 IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008
Summary of IFRIC 12
Service con­ces­sion arrange­ments defined
A service con­ces­sion arrange­ment is an arrange­ment whereby a gov­ern­ment or other public sector body contracts with a private operator to develop (or upgrade), operate and maintain the grantor's in­fra­struc­ture assets such as roads, bridges, tunnels, airports, energy dis­tri­b­u­tion networks, prisons or hospitals. The grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide using the assets, to whom, and at what price, and also controls any sig­nif­i­cant residual interest in the assets at the end of the term of the arrange­ment.
The objective of IFRIC 12 is to clarify how certain aspects of existing IASB lit­er­a­ture are to be applied to service con­ces­sion arrange­ments.
Two types of service con­ces­sion arrange­ments
IFRIC 12 draws a dis­tinc­tion between two types of service con­ces­sion arrange­ment.
In one, the operator receives a financial asset, specif­i­cally an un­con­di­tional con­trac­tual right to receive a specified or de­ter­minable amount of cash or another financial asset from the gov­ern­ment in return for con­struct­ing or upgrading a public sector asset, and then operating and main­tain­ing the asset for a specified period of time. This category includes guar­an­tees by the gov­ern­ment to pay for any shortfall between amounts received from users of the public service and specified or de­ter­minable amounts.
In the other, the operator receives an in­tan­gi­ble asset – a right to charge for use of a public sector asset that it con­structs or upgrades and then must operate and maintain for a specified period of time. A right to charge users is not an un­con­di­tional right to receive cash because the amounts are con­tin­gent on the extent to which the public uses the service.
IFRIC 12 allows for the pos­si­bil­ity that both types of arrange­ment may exist within a single contract: to the extent that the gov­ern­ment has given an un­con­di­tional guarantee of payment for the con­struc­tion of the public sector asset, the operator has a financial asset; to the extent that the operator has to rely on the public using the service in order to obtain payment, the operator has an in­tan­gi­ble asset.
Accounting – Financial asset model
The operator recog­nises a financial asset to the extent that it has an un­con­di­tional con­trac­tual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor for the con­struc­tion services. The operator has an un­con­di­tional right to receive cash if the grantor con­trac­tu­ally guar­an­tees to pay the operator
(a) specified or de­ter­minable amounts or
(b) the shortfall, if any, between amounts received from users of the public service and specified or de­ter­minable amounts, even if payment is con­tin­gent on the operator ensuring that the in­fra­struc­ture meets specified quality or ef­fi­ciency re­quire­ments.
The operator measures the financial asset at fair value.
Accounting – In­tan­gi­ble asset model
The operator recog­nises an in­tan­gi­ble asset to the extent that it receives a right (a licence) to charge users of the public service. A right to charge users of the public service is not an un­con­di­tional right to receive cash because the amounts are con­tin­gent on the extent that the public uses the service.
The operator measures the in­tan­gi­ble asset at fair value.
Operating revenue
The operator of a service con­ces­sion arrange­ment recog­nises and measures revenue in ac­cor­dance with IASs 11 and 18 for the services it performs.
Accounting by the gov­ern­ment (grantor)
IFRIC 12 does not address accounting for the gov­ern­ment side of service con­ces­sion arrange­ments. IFRSs are not designed to apply to not-for-profit ac­tiv­i­ties in the private sector or the public sector. However, the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) has started its own project on service con­ces­sion arrange­ments, which will give serious con­sid­er­a­tion to accounting by grantors. The prin­ci­ples applied in IFRIC 12 will be con­sid­ered as part of the project.
Effective date
IFRIC 12 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
Accounting by the grantor gov­ern­ment – IPSASB standards
On 31 October 2011, the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) released IPSAS 32 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments: Grantor, which seeks to address a lack of international guidance on how gov­ern­ments and other public sector entities should report their in­volve­ment in service con­ces­sion arrange­ments, often used to build the in­fra­struc­ture necessary to maintain and improve critical public services.
IPSAS 32 provides for the recog­ni­tion, mea­sure­ment, and dis­clo­sure of service con­ces­sion assets and related li­a­bil­i­ties, revenues, and expenses by the grantor. The criteria in IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments for de­ter­min­ing whether the operator con­trolled the asset used in a service con­ces­sion arrange­ment are also used in IPSAS 32 to assess whether the grantor con­trolled the asset. This approach minimises the pos­si­bil­ity that neither the operator nor the grantor would recognise the service con­ces­sion asset.
IPSAS 32 also creates symmetry with IFRIC 12 on relevant accounting issues (i.e. li­a­bil­i­ties, revenues, and expenses) from the grantor's point of view. In addition, IPSAS 32 is con­sis­tent with SIC-29 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments: Dis­clo­sures.
Click for IPSASB press release (link to IFAC website).
Deloitte guide to IFRIC 12
Guide to IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments In February 2011, Deloitte's IFRS Global Office published IFRIC 12 Service con­ces­sion arrange­ments – A pocket practical guide.
The Guide is intended to serve as an il­lus­tra­tive tool for the reader in the ap­pli­ca­tion of IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments, providing analysis of the re­quire­ments of IFRIC 12 and practical guidance with examples that address some of the more complex issues around service con­ces­sion arrange­ments. The Guide provides guidance on scope, the de­ter­mi­na­tion of the accounting model, specific char­ac­ter­is­tics of con­ces­sions that are common (take-or-pay arrange­ments, capacity avail­abil­ity, etc.) and much more.
Click for IFRIC 12 Service con­ces­sion arrange­ments – A pocket practical guide (PDF 241k, February 2011, 59 pages).
IFRIC 13 — Customer Loyalty Programmes
Quick Article Links
Note: IFRIC 13 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers as of 1 January 2018

Ref­er­ences
IAS 18 Revenue
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
7 September 2006 IFRIC D20 Customer Loyalty Pro­grammes published Comment deadline 6 November 2006
28 June 2007 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Pro­grammes issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008
6 May 2010 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (fair value of award credits) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011
28 May 2014 Su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
Summary of IFRIC 13
IFRIC 13 addresses accounting by entities that grant loyalty award credits (such as 'points' or travel miles) to customers who buy other goods or services. Specif­i­cally, it explains how such entities should account for their oblig­a­tions to provide free or dis­counted goods or services ('awards') to customers who redeem award credits.
Key pro­vi­sions
An entity that grants loyalty award credits shall allocate some of the proceeds of the initial sale to the award credits as a liability (its oblig­a­tion to provide the awards). In effect, the award is accounted for as a separate component of the sale trans­ac­tion.
The amount of proceeds allocated to the award credits is measured by reference to their fair value, that is, the amount for which the award credits could have been sold sep­a­rately.
The entity shall recognise the deferred portion of the proceeds as revenue only when it has fulfilled its oblig­a­tions. It may fulfil its oblig­a­tions either by supplying the awards itself or by engaging (and paying) a third party to do so.
If at any time the expected costs of meeting the oblig­a­tion exceed the con­sid­er­a­tion received, the entity has an onerous contract for which IAS 37 would require recog­ni­tion of a liability.
If IFRIC 13 causes an entity to change its accounting policy for customer loyalty awards, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors applies.
Effective date
IFRIC 13 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
IFRIC 14 — IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 19 Employee Benefits
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
24 August 2006 IFRIC D19 IAS 19 — The Asset Ceiling: Avail­abil­ity of Economic Benefits and Minimum Funding Re­quire­ments published Comment deadline 31 October 2006
4 July 2007 IFRIC 14 IAS 19 — The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Re­quire­ments and their In­ter­ac­tion issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008
28 May 2009 Exposure Draft ED/2009/4 Pre­pay­ments of a Minimum Funding Re­quire­ment (Proposed amend­ments to IFRIC 14) published Comment deadline 27 July 2009
26 November 2009 Amended by Pre­pay­ments of a Minimum Funding Re­quire­ment (Amend­ments to IFRIC 14) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011
Amend­ments under con­sid­er­a­tion by the IASB
IAS 19/IFRIC 14 — Re­mea­sure­ment at a plan amendment, cur­tail­ment or set­tle­ment / Avail­abil­ity of a refund of a surplus from a defined benefit plan
Summary of IFRIC 14
In many countries, laws or con­trac­tual terms require employers to make minimum funding payments for their pension or other employee benefit plans. This enhances the security of the re­tire­ment benefit promise made to members of an employee benefit plan.
Normally, such statutory or con­trac­tual funding re­quire­ments would not affect the mea­sure­ment of the defined benefit asset or liability. This is because the con­tri­bu­tions, once paid, become plan assets and the ad­di­tional net liability would be nil. However, paragraph 64 of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (2011) limits the mea­sure­ment of the defined benefit asset to the 'present value of economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or re­duc­tions in future con­tri­bu­tions to the plan.' IFRIC 14 addresses the in­ter­ac­tion between a minimum funding re­quire­ment and the limit placed by paragraph 64 of IAS 19 on the mea­sure­ment of the defined benefit asset or liability.
When de­ter­min­ing the limit on a defined benefit asset in ac­cor­dance with IAS 19.64, under IFRIC 14 entities are required to measure any economic benefits available to them in the form of refunds or re­duc­tions in future con­tri­bu­tions at the maximum amount that is con­sis­tent with the terms and con­di­tions of the plan and any statutory re­quire­ments in the ju­ris­dic­tion of the plan. The entity's in­ten­tions on how to use a surplus (for instance, whether the entity intends to improve benefits rather than reduce con­tri­bu­tions or get a refund) must be dis­re­garded.
Such economic benefits are regarded as available to an entity if the entity has an un­con­di­tional right to realise them at some point during the life of the plan or when the plan is settled, even if they are not re­al­is­able im­me­di­ately at the balance sheet date. Such an un­con­di­tional right would not exist when the avail­abil­ity of the refund or the reduction in future con­tri­bu­tion would be con­tin­gent upon factors beyond the entity's control (for example, approval by third parties such as plan trustees). To the extent the right is con­tin­gent, no asset would be recog­nised.
Economic benefits available as a refund
If an entity has an un­con­di­tional right to a refund
during the life of the plan, without assuming that the plan li­a­bil­i­ties must be settled in order to obtain the refund, or
assuming the gradual set­tle­ment of the plan li­a­bil­i­ties over time until all members have left the plan, or
assuming the full set­tle­ment of the plan li­a­bil­i­ties in a single event (i.e. as a plan wind-up),
it recog­nises an asset measured as the amount of the surplus at the balance sheet date that it has a right to receive as a refund. This is the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit oblig­a­tion, less any as­so­ci­ated costs, such as taxes.
If the refund is de­ter­mined as the full amount or a pro­por­tion of the surplus, rather than a fixed amount, the amount shall be cal­cu­lated without further ad­just­ment for the time value of money, even if the refund is re­al­is­able only at a future date, as both the defined benefit oblig­a­tion and the fair value of plan assets are already measured on a present value basis.
Economic benefits available as a reduction in con­tri­bu­tions
In the absence of a minimum funding re­quire­ment, IFRIC 14 requires entities to determine economic benefits available as a reduction in future con­tri­bu­tions as:
the present value of the future service cost to the entity (excluding costs borne by employees) over:
the shorter of the expected life of the plan; and
the expected life of the entity;
de­ter­mined using as­sump­tions con­sis­tent with those used to determine the defined benefit oblig­a­tion (including the discount rate); and
based on con­di­tions that exist at the balance sheet date.
This means, an entity shall assume
no change to the benefits provided by a plan in the future until the plan is amended, and
a stable workforce unless it is demon­stra­bly committed at the balance sheet date to make a reduction in the number of employees covered by the plan.
IFRIC 14 contains il­lus­tra­tive examples that outline the accounting treat­ments under a number of different scenarios.
Effective date and tran­si­tion
IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion is to be applied from the beginning of the first period presented in the financial state­ments for annual periods beginning on or after the effective date. The IFRIC had initially proposed full ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion, but decided to amend the tran­si­tional pro­vi­sions re­flect­ing concerns from con­stituents.
IFRIC 15 — Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate
Quick Article Links
Note: IFRIC 15 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers as of 1 January 2018

Ref­er­ences
IAS 11 Con­struc­tion Contracts
IAS 18 Revenue
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
5 July 2007 IFRIC D21 Real Estate Sales published Comment deadline 5 October 2007
3 July 2008 IFRIC 15 Agree­ments for the Con­struc­tion of Real Estate issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009
28 May 2014 Su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
Summary of IFRIC 15
IFRIC 15 stan­dard­ises accounting practice across ju­ris­dic­tions for the recog­ni­tion of revenue by real estate de­vel­op­ers for sales of units, such as apart­ments or houses, 'off plan' – that is, before con­struc­tion is complete.
Fun­da­men­tal issue
The fun­da­men­tal issue is whether the developer is selling a product (goods) – the completed apartment or house – or is selling a service – a con­struc­tion service as a con­trac­tor engaged by the buyer. Revenue from selling products is normally recog­nised at delivery. Revenue from selling services is normally recog­nised on a per­cent­age-of-com­ple­tion basis as con­struc­tion pro­gresses.
IAS 11 or IAS 18?
IFRIC 15 provides guidance on how to determine whether an agreement for the con­struc­tion of real estate is within the scope of IAS 11 Con­struc­tion Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue and, ac­cord­ingly, when revenue from the con­struc­tion should be recog­nised:
An agreement for the con­struc­tion of real estate is a con­struc­tion contract within the scope of IAS 11 only when the buyer is able to specify the major struc­tural elements of the design of the real estate before con­struc­tion begins and/or specify major struc­tural changes once con­struc­tion is in progress (whether it exercises that ability or not).
If the buyer has that ability, IAS 11 applies.
If the buyer does not have that ability, IAS 18 applies.
If IAS 11 applies, what is the accounting?
If IAS 11 applies, revenue is recog­nised on a per­cent­age-of-com­ple­tion basis provided that reliable estimates of con­struc­tion progress and future costs can be made.
If IAS 18 applies, service or goods?
Even if IAS 18 applies, the agreement may be to provide con­struc­tion services rather than goods. This would likely be the case, for instance, if the entity is not required to acquire and supply con­struc­tion materials. If the entity is required to provide services together with con­struc­tion materials in order to perform its con­trac­tual oblig­a­tion to deliver real estate to the buyer, the agreement is accounted for as the sale of goods under IAS 18.
Impact of IFRIC 15
The main expected change in practice is a shift for some entities from recog­nis­ing revenue as con­struc­tion pro­gresses to recog­nis­ing revenue at a single time – at com­ple­tion upon or after delivery. Agree­ments that will be affected will be mainly those currently accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 11 that do not meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a con­struc­tion contract as in­ter­preted by the IFRIC and do not transfer to the buyer control and the sig­nif­i­cant risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in its current state as con­struc­tion pro­gresses.
Effective date
IFRIC 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and must be applied ret­ro­spec­tively. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
Press release
Click for the Press Release (PDF 55k).
IAS Plus Newslet­ter
Click for the IAS Plus Newslet­ter on IFRIC 15 (PDF 133k).
Dis­cus­sion at November 2008 IASB Meeting
Tran­si­tion and effective date of IFRIC 15 Agree­ments for the Con­struc­tion of Real Estate
The Board con­sid­ered rep­re­sen­ta­tions made by some par­tic­i­pants at the September 2008 World Standards Setters' meeting and two in­di­vid­ual letters re­quest­ing a change to the tran­si­tional re­quire­ments and effective date of IFRIC 15. The Board had been asked:
to consider changing the tran­si­tional re­quire­ments to require prospec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion (rather than ret­ro­spec­tive); and
to consider delaying the effective date to annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 (as opposed to 1 January 2009).
The Board discussed both items. There was very little sympathy for prospec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion. Board members noted that it was likely that entities applying IFRIC 15 would be moving from a per­cent­age-of-com­ple­tion approach for revenue to a completed sale approach, which would not require extensive systems changes. With respect to the effective date, the IFRIC Chairman noted that IFRIC and the Board had already agreed to a delayed effective date: six months after issue rather than the usual three months.
The staff noted the In­ter­pre­ta­tion had been through full due process and that EFRAG had not been persuaded by the arguments raised by one of its con­stituents (which were copied to the IASB) when preparing its en­dorse­ment advice to the European Com­mis­sion.
The Board unan­i­mously declined to change IFRIC 15 for either issue.
IFRIC 16 — Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
19 July 2007 IFRIC D22 Hedges of a Net In­vest­ment in a Foreign Operation published Comment deadline 19 October 2007
3 July 2008 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net In­vest­ment in a Foreign Operation issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008
30 January 2009 Exposure Draft ED/2009/1 Post-im­ple­men­ta­tion Revisions to IFRIC In­ter­pre­ta­tions (Proposed amend­ments to IFRIC 9 and IFRIC 16) published Comment deadline 2 March 2009
16 April 2009 Amended by Im­prove­ments to IFRSs (entity that can hold hedging in­stru­ments) Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
Summary of IFRIC 16
IFRIC 16 clarifies three main issues:
Whether risk arises from (a) the foreign currency exposure to the func­tional cur­ren­cies of the foreign operation and the parent entity, or from (b) the foreign currency exposure to the func­tional currency of the foreign operation and the pre­sen­ta­tion currency of the parent entity's con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments.
IFRIC 16 concludes that the pre­sen­ta­tion currency does not create an exposure to which an entity may apply hedge accounting. Con­se­quently, a parent entity may designate as a hedged risk only the foreign exchange dif­fer­ences arising from a dif­fer­ence between its own func­tional currency and that of its foreign operation.
Which entity within a group can hold a hedging in­stru­ment in a hedge of a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation and in par­tic­u­lar whether the parent entity holding the net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation must also hold the hedging in­stru­ment.
IFRIC 16 concludes that the hedging in­stru­ment(s) may be held by any entity or entities within the group.
How an entity should determine the amounts to be re­clas­si­fied from equity to profit or loss for both the hedging in­stru­ment and the hedged item when the entity disposes of the in­vest­ment.
IFRIC 16 concludes that while IAS 39 must be applied to determine the amount that needs to be re­clas­si­fied to profit or loss from the foreign currency trans­la­tion reserve in respect of the hedging in­stru­ment, IAS 21 must be applied in respect of the hedged item.
Effective date
IFRIC 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008. An entity may choose to apply IFRIC 16 ret­ro­spec­tively or prospec­tively. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
Press release
Click for the IASB Press Release (PDF 59k).
IAS Plus Newslet­ter
Click for the IAS Plus Newslet­ter on IFRIC 16 (PDF 122k).
Amendment to IFRIC 16 proposed at January 2009 IASB meeting
At its January 2009 Meeting, the Board discussed an issue that had been submitted by a con­stituent sub­se­quent to the pub­li­ca­tion of IFRIC 16. The staff had satisfied itself (in con­sul­ta­tion with Board members and an IFRIC member) that the con­stituent's issue was valid and had not been con­tem­plated by the IFRIC when IFRIC 16 was being developed. The concern raised was that in some cir­cum­stances, while the total amounts of foreign exchange dif­fer­ences are indeed the same with and without hedge accounting, the split between the amounts included in profit or loss and foreign currency trans­la­tion reserve would be different. Without hedge accounting, the foreign exchange dif­fer­ence arising from the hedging in­stru­ment would be included in profit or loss while the dif­fer­ence arising from the net in­vest­ment would be included in the foreign currency trans­la­tion reserve.
The Board agreed to amend IFRIC 16 paragraph 14 by deleting a par­en­thet­i­cal comment: '(except the foreign operation that itself is being hedged)'.
So this amendment can be in place in time to be used for 30 June 2009 interim financial reporting, the Board agreed that it should issue an exposure draft of the proposals for a 30-day comment period (the minimum permitted by the IASB's Due Process Handbook). It was ac­knowl­edged that it was unlikely that any amendment could be finalised in time to ac­com­mo­date first quarter 2009 interim reporting.
Exposure Draft of Amendment to IFRIC 16 – Des­ig­na­tion of a hedging in­stru­ment in a hedge of a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation
Based on dis­cus­sions at its January 2009 Meeting, on 30 January 2009 the Board issued Exposure Draft ED/2009/1 proposing to allow entities to designate as a hedging in­stru­ment in a hedge of a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation an in­stru­ment that is held by the foreign operation that is being hedged. The ED proposes to amend IFRIC 16 paragraph 14 by deleting a par­en­thet­i­cal comment: '(except the foreign operation that itself is being hedged)'. The proposed effective date is annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008. Comment deadline is 2 March 2009. Click for More In­for­ma­tion.
April 2009: IFRIC 16 amended
On 16 April 2009 the IASB amended IFRIC 16 to allow entities to designate as a hedging in­stru­ment in a net in­vest­ment in a foreign operation an in­stru­ment that is held by the foreign operation that is being hedged. Effective date is 1 July 2009. The amendment was part of the IASB's annual im­prove­ments for 2009. Click for IASB Press Release (PDF 45k).
IFRIC 17 — Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments (as revised in 2007)
IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
17 January 2008 IFRIC D23 Dis­tri­b­u­tions of Non-cash Assets to Owners published Comment deadline 25 April 2008
27 November 2008 IFRIC 17 Dis­tri­b­u­tions of Non-cash Assets to Owners issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
Summary of IFRIC 17
IFRIC 17 Dis­tri­b­u­tions of Non-cash Assets to Owners applies to the entity making the dis­tri­b­u­tion, not to the recipient. It applies when non-cash assets are dis­trib­uted to owners or when the owner is given a choice of taking cash in lieu of the non-cash assets.
IFRIC 17 clarifies that:
a dividend payable should be recog­nised when the dividend is ap­pro­pri­ately au­tho­rised and is no longer at the dis­cre­tion of the entity
an entity should measure the dividend payable at the fair value of the net assets to be dis­trib­uted
an entity should remeasure the liability at each reporting date and at set­tle­ment, with changes recog­nised directly in equity
an entity should recognise the dif­fer­ence between the dividend paid and the carrying amount of the net assets dis­trib­uted in profit or loss, and should disclose it sep­a­rately
an entity should provide ad­di­tional dis­clo­sures if the net assets being held for dis­tri­b­u­tion to owners meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a dis­con­tin­ued operation
IFRIC 17 applies to pro rata dis­tri­b­u­tions of non-cash assets (all owners are treated equally) but does not apply to common control trans­ac­tions.
Effective date and tran­si­tion
IFRIC 17 is to be applied prospec­tively.
IFRIC 17 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted, with some re­stric­tions.
Press release
Click for the IASB Press Release (PDF 51k).
IAS Plus Newslet­ter
Click for the IAS Plus Newslet­ter on IFRIC 17 (PDF 104k).
IFRIC 18 — Transfers of Assets from Customers
Quick Article Links
Note: IFRIC 18 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers as of 1 January 2018

Ref­er­ences
IAS 18 Revenue
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
17 January 2008 IFRIC D24 Customer Con­tri­bu­tions published Comment deadline 25 April 2008
29 January 2009 IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers issued Effective for transfers received on or after 1 July 2009
28 May 2014 Su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
Summary of IFRIC 18
IFRIC 18 clarifies the re­quire­ments of IFRSs for agree­ments in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant, and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services (such as a supply of elec­tric­ity, gas or water). In some cases, the entity receives cash from a customer that must be used only to acquire or construct the item of property, plant, and equipment in order to connect the customer to a network or provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services (or to do both).
The basic principle of IFRIC 18 is that when the item of property, plant and equipment trans­ferred from a customer meets the de­f­i­n­i­tion of an asset under the IASB Framework from the per­spec­tive of the recipient, the recipient must recognise the asset in its financial state­ments. If the customer continues to control the trans­ferred item, the asset de­f­i­n­i­tion would not be met even if ownership of the asset is trans­ferred to the utility or other recipient entity.
The deemed cost of that asset is its fair value on the date of the transfer.
If there are sep­a­rately iden­ti­fi­able services received by the customer in exchange for the transfer, then the recipient should split the trans­ac­tion into separate com­po­nents as required by IAS 18. If there is only one component iden­ti­fied, revenue is recog­nised when the service is performed (which could, for example, be as soon as access to a utility network is provided). IFRIC 18 provides guidance on how to identify the entity's oblig­a­tion to provide one or more sep­a­rately iden­ti­fi­able services in exchange for the trans­ferred asset – and, therefore, how to recognise revenue:
If the entity has only one service oblig­a­tion, it would recognise revenue when the service is performed.
If the entity has more than one sep­a­rately iden­ti­fi­able service oblig­a­tion, it should allocate the fair value of the total con­sid­er­a­tion received to each service and recognise revenue from each service sep­a­rately in ac­cor­dance with IAS 18.
If the entity has an oblig­a­tion to provide ongoing services, the period over which revenue is recog­nised is generally de­ter­mined by the terms of the agreement with the customer. If the agreement does not specify a period, the revenue shall be recog­nised over a period no longer than the useful life of the trans­ferred asset used to
provide the ongoing service.
IFRIC 18 also provides guidance on how to account for transfers of cash from customers.
While IFRIC 18 is par­tic­u­larly relevant for entities in the utility sector, it applies to all entities that prepare IFRS financial state­ments.
Effective date
IFRIC 18 must be applied prospec­tively to transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted provided the val­u­a­tions and other in­for­ma­tion needed to apply to the In­ter­pre­ta­tion to past transfers were obtained at the time those transfers were made. Click for:
Press release
Click for the IASB Press Release (PDF 61k).
IAS Plus Update newslet­ter
Deloitte's IFRS Global Office has published an IAS Plus Update Newslet­ter – Guidance Issued on Accounting for Transfers of Assets from Customers (IFRIC 18) (PDF 107k).
IFRIC 19 — Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
6 August 2009 IFRIC D25 Ex­tin­guish­ing Financial Li­a­bil­i­ties with Equity In­stru­ments published Comment deadline 5 October 2009
26 November 2009 IFRIC 19 Ex­tin­guish­ing Financial Li­a­bil­i­ties with Equity In­stru­ments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010
Summary of IFRIC 19
If a debtor issues equity in­stru­ments to a creditor to ex­tin­guish all or part of a financial liability, those equity in­stru­ments are 'con­sid­er­a­tion paid' in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39.41. Ac­cord­ingly, the debtor should dere­cog­nise the financial liability fully or partly.
The debtor should measure the equity in­stru­ments issued to the creditor at fair value, unless fair value is not reliably de­ter­minable, in which case the equity in­stru­ments issued are measured at the fair value of the liability ex­tin­guished.
If only part of a liability is ex­tin­guished, the debtor must determine whether any part of the con­sid­er­a­tion paid relates to mod­i­fi­ca­tion of the terms of the remaining liability. If it does, the debtor must allocate the fair value of the con­sid­er­a­tion paid between the liability ex­tin­guished and the liability retained.
The debtor recog­nises in profit or loss the dif­fer­ence between the carrying amount of the financial liability (or part) ex­tin­guished and the mea­sure­ment of the equity in­stru­ments issued.
When only part of the liability is ex­tin­guished, the debtor must determine whether the terms of the remaining debt have been sub­stan­tially modified (taking into account any portion of the con­sid­er­a­tion paid that was allocated to the remaining debt). If there has been a sub­stan­tial mod­i­fi­ca­tion, the debtor should account for an ex­tin­guish­ment of the old remaining liability and the recog­ni­tion of a new liability (see IAS 39.40).
IFRIC 19 addresses only the accounting by the entity that issues equity in­stru­ments in order to settle, in full or in part, a financial liability. It does not address the accounting by the creditor (lender).
The following sit­u­a­tions are ex­plic­itly excluded from the scope of IFRIC 19:
the creditor is also a direct or indirect share­holder and is acting in its capacity as direct or indirect share­holder;
the creditor and the entity are con­trolled by the same party or parties before and after the trans­ac­tion, and the substance of the trans­ac­tion includes an equity dis­tri­b­u­tion from, or con­tri­bu­tion to, the entity; or
ex­tin­guish­ing the financial liability by issuing equity shares is in ac­cor­dance with the original terms of the financial liability.
IFRIC 19 must be applied in annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted. It must be applied ret­ro­spec­tively from the beginning of the earliest com­par­a­tive period presented.
Click for IASB press release (PDF 109k).
IFRIC 20 — Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment
IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
26 August 2010 IFRIC DI/2010/1 Stripping Costs in the Pro­duc­tion Phase of a Surface Mine published Comment deadline 30 November 2010
19 October 2011 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Pro­duc­tion Phase of a Surface Mine issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
Resources
IFRS in Focus Newslet­ter — IFRS In­ter­pre­ta­tions Committee issues Final In­ter­pre­ta­tion on Stripping Costs in the Pro­duc­tion Phase of a Surface Mine
Deloitte Comment Letter on Draft IFRIC In­ter­pre­ta­tion DI/2010/1 Stripping Costs in the Pro­duc­tion Phase of a Surface Mine
Summary of IFRIC 20
Back­ground
In surface mining op­er­a­tions, entities may find it necessary to remove mine waste materials ('over­bur­den') to gain access to mineral ore deposits. This waste removal activity is known as 'stripping'. There can be two benefits accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: usable ore that can be used to produce inventory and improved access to further quan­ti­ties of material that will be mined in future periods.
IFRIC 20 considers when and how to account sep­a­rately for these two benefits arising from the stripping activity, as well as how to measure these benefits both initially and sub­se­quently.
IFRIC 20 only deals with waste removal costs that are incurred in surface mining activity during the pro­duc­tion phase of the mine ('pro­duc­tion stripping costs').
Overview of re­quire­ments
IFRIC 20 requires:
The costs of stripping activity to be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with the prin­ci­ples of IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries to the extent that the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of inventory produced
The costs of stripping activity which provides a benefit in the form of improved access to ore is recog­nised as a non-cur­rent 'stripping activity asset' where the following criteria are met:
it is probable that the future economic benefit (improved access to the ore body) as­so­ci­ated with the stripping activity will flow to the entity
the entity can identify the component of the ore body for which access has been improved
the costs relating to the stripping activity as­so­ci­ated with that component can be measured reliably
When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the inventory produced are not sep­a­rately iden­ti­fi­able, pro­duc­tion stripping costs are allocated between the inventory produced and the stripping activity asset by using an al­lo­ca­tion basis that is based on a relevant pro­duc­tion measure
A stripping activity asset is accounted for as an addition to, or as an en­hance­ment of, an existing asset and clas­si­fied as tangible or in­tan­gi­ble according to the nature of the existing asset of which it forms part
A stripping activity asset is initially measured at cost and sub­se­quently carried at cost or its revalued amount less de­pre­ci­a­tion or amor­ti­sa­tion and im­pair­ment losses
A stripping activity asset is de­pre­ci­ated or amortised on a sys­tem­atic basis, over the expected useful life of the iden­ti­fied component of the ore body that becomes more ac­ces­si­ble as a result of the stripping activity. The units of pro­duc­tion method is used unless another method is more ap­pro­pri­ate.
Ap­pli­ca­tion and tran­si­tion
IFRIC 20 applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion applies to pro­duc­tion stripping costs incurred on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented. Any 'pre­de­ces­sor stripping asset' at that date is required to be re­clas­si­fied as a part of the existing asset to which the stripping activity is related (to the extent there remains an iden­ti­fi­able component of the ore body to which it can be as­so­ci­ated), or otherwise recog­nised in opening retained earnings at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
IFRIC 21 — Levies
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
IAS 12 Income Taxes
IAS 20 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance
IAS 24 Related Party Dis­clo­sures
IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets
IFRIC 6 Li­a­bil­i­ties arising from Par­tic­i­pat­ing in a Specific Market — Waste Elec­tri­cal and Elec­tronic Equipment
History of IFRIC 21
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
31 May 2012 Draft In­ter­pre­ta­tion DI/2012/1 Levies Charged by Public Au­thor­i­ties on Entities that Operate in a Specific Market published Comment deadline 5 September 2012
20 May 2013 IFRIC 21 Levies issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014
  Summary of IFRIC 21
Back­ground
IFRIC 21 provides guidance on when to recognise a liability for a levy imposed by a gov­ern­ment, both for levies that are accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets and those where the timing and amount of the levy is certain.
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion covers the accounting for outflows imposed on entities by gov­ern­ments (including gov­ern­ment agencies and similar bodies) in ac­cor­dance with laws and/or reg­u­la­tions.  However, it does not include income taxes (see IAS 12 Income Taxes), fines and other penalties, li­a­bil­i­ties arising from emissions trading schemes and outflows within the scope of other Standards.
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion does not supersede IFRIC 6 Li­a­bil­i­ties arising from Par­tic­i­pat­ing in a Specific Market — Waste Elec­tri­cal and Elec­tronic Equipment, which remains in force and is con­sis­tent with IFRIC 21.
Oblig­at­ing event
IFRIC 21 iden­ti­fies the oblig­at­ing event for the recog­ni­tion of a liability as the activity that triggers the payment of the levy in ac­cor­dance with the relevant leg­is­la­tion. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion clarifies that 'economic com­pul­sion' and the going concern principle do not create or imply that an oblig­at­ing event has occurred.
Recog­ni­tion
IFRIC 21 provides the following guidance on recog­ni­tion of a liability to pay levies:
The liability is recog­nised pro­gres­sively if the oblig­at­ing event occurs over a period of time
If an oblig­a­tion is triggered on reaching a minimum threshold, the liability is recog­nised when that minimum threshold is reached.
The same recog­ni­tion prin­ci­ples are applied in interim financial reports.
IFRIC 21 does not deal with how to account with costs arising from the recog­ni­tion of a liability to pay a levy, and instead other standards are applied in de­ter­min­ing whether the recog­ni­tion of a liability gives rise to an asset or expense.
The Il­lus­tra­tive Examples ac­com­pa­ny­ing IFRIC 21 provide the following examples of how to account for various types of levies. These are briefly sum­marised below:
  Type Oblig­at­ing event Interim reports
Levy triggered pro­gres­sively as revenue is generated in current period Gen­er­a­tion of revenue (recognise pro­gres­sively) Recognise pro­gres­sively based on revenue generated
Levy triggered in full as soon as revenue is generated in one period, based on revenues from a previous period Gen­er­a­tion of revenue in the sub­se­quent period (full recog­ni­tion at that time) Recognise if revenue generated in interim period
Levy triggered in full if entity operates as a bank at the end of the reporting period Operating as a bank at the end of the reporting period (full recog­ni­tion at that time) Only recognise in an interim period that includes the last day of the annual reporting period
Levy triggered if revenues are above a minimum threshold Reaching the minimum threshold (recognise an amount con­sis­tent with the oblig­a­tion at that time) Only recognise in an interim period where the minimum threshold has been met or exceeded
IFRIC 21 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Initial ap­pli­ca­tion is in ac­cor­dance with the re­quire­ments of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, i.e. the re­quire­ments are applied on a ret­ro­spec­tive basis.
IFRIC 22 — Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration
Ref­er­ences
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
  History of IFRIC 22
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
November 2014 Added to the In­ter­pre­ta­tions Committee's agenda
21 October 2015 DI/2015/2 Foreign Currency Trans­ac­tions and Advance Con­sid­er­a­tion published Comment deadline 19 January 2016
8 December 2016 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Trans­ac­tions and Advance Con­sid­er­a­tion issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
  Summary of IFRIC 22
Issue
IFRIC 22 clarifies the accounting for trans­ac­tions that include the receipt or payment of advance con­sid­er­a­tion in a foreign currency.
Scope
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion covers foreign currency trans­ac­tions when an entity recog­nises a non-mon­e­tary asset or non-mon­e­tary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance con­sid­er­a­tion before the entity recog­nises the related asset, expense or income. It does not apply when an entity measures the related asset, expense or income on initial recog­ni­tion at fair value or at the fair value of the con­sid­er­a­tion received or paid at a date other than the date of initial recog­ni­tion of the non-mon­e­tary asset or non-mon­e­tary liability. Also, the In­ter­pre­ta­tion need not be applied to income taxes, insurance contracts or rein­sur­ance contracts.
Consensus
The date of the trans­ac­tion, for the purpose of de­ter­min­ing the exchange rate, is the date of initial recog­ni­tion of the non-mon­e­tary pre­pay­ment asset or deferred income liability.
If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, a date of trans­ac­tion is es­tab­lished for each payment or receipt.
Effective date
IFRIC 22 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
Tran­si­tion
On initial ap­pli­ca­tion, entities apply the in­ter­pre­ta­tion either:
ret­ro­spec­tively in ac­cor­dance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors; or
prospec­tively to all foreign currency assets, expenses and income in the scope of the in­ter­pre­ta­tion initially recog­nised on or after the beginning of the reporting period an entity first applies the in­ter­pre­ta­tion in or the beginning of a prior reporting period presented as com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion.
IFRIC 23 — Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments
Ref­er­ences
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period
IAS 12 Income Taxes
  History of IFRIC 23
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
January 2014 Added to the In­ter­pre­ta­tions Committee's agenda
21 October 2015 DI/2015/1 Un­cer­tainty over Income Tax Treat­ments published Comment deadline 19 January 2016
7 June 2017 IFRIC 23 Un­cer­tainty over Income Tax Treat­ments issued Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019
  Summary of IFRIC 23
Issue
IFRIC 23 clarifies the accounting for un­cer­tain­ties in income taxes.
Scope
The in­ter­pre­ta­tion is to be applied to the de­ter­mi­na­tion of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is un­cer­tainty over income tax treat­ments under IAS 12.
Consensus
Whether tax treat­ments should be con­sid­ered col­lec­tively
An entity is required to use judgement to determine whether each tax treatment should be con­sid­ered in­de­pen­dently or whether some tax treat­ments should be con­sid­ered together. The decision should be based on which approach provides better pre­dic­tions of the res­o­lu­tion of the un­cer­tainty.
As­sump­tions for taxation au­thor­i­ties' ex­am­i­na­tions
An entity is to assume that a taxation authority with the right to examine any amounts reported to it will examine those amounts and will have full knowledge of all relevant in­for­ma­tion when doing so.
De­ter­mi­na­tion of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates
An entity has to consider whether it is probable that the relevant authority will accept each tax treatment, or group of tax treat­ments, that it used or plans to use in its income tax filing.
If the entity concludes that it is probable that a par­tic­u­lar tax treatment is accepted, the entity has to determine taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates con­sis­tently with the tax treatment included in its income tax filings.
If the entity concludes that it is not probable that a par­tic­u­lar tax treatment is accepted, the entity has to use the most likely amount or the expected value of the tax treatment when de­ter­min­ing taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates. The decision should be based on which method provides better pre­dic­tions of the res­o­lu­tion of the un­cer­tainty.
Effect of changes in facts and cir­cum­stances
An entity has to reassess its judge­ments and estimates if facts and cir­cum­stances change.
Effective date
IFRIC 23 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Earlier ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted.
Tran­si­tion
The re­quire­ments are applied by recog­nis­ing the cu­mu­la­tive effect of initially applying them in retained earnings, or in other ap­pro­pri­ate com­po­nents of equity, at the start of the reporting period in which an entity first applies them, without adjusting com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion. Full ret­ro­spec­tive ap­pli­ca­tion is permitted, if an entity can do so without using hindsight.
 
SIC-1 — Consistency – Different Cost Formulas for Inventories
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries
History
Issued December 1997.
Effective date: Periods beginning on or after 1 January 1999.
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 2 In­ven­to­ries (Revised 2003) effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-1
SIC-1 requires that under IAS 2.21 and IAS 2.23, the same cost formula be used for in­ven­to­ries having the same char­ac­ter­is­tics. Where the nature or use of a group of inventory items differs from other groups, different methods may be used for the different groups.
SIC-2 — Consistency - Capitalisation of Borrowing Costs
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs
History
Issued December 1997.
Effective date: Periods beginning on or after 1 January 1998.
Su­per­seded by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors (Revised 2003) effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-2
If an en­ter­prise adopts the accounting policy of cap­i­tal­is­ing borrowing costs as permitted by IAS 23, it should apply that policy con­sis­tently for all qual­i­fy­ing assets and periods.
SIC-3 — Elimination of Unrealised Profits and Losses on Transactions with Associates
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates
History
Issued December 1997.
Effective date: Periods beginning on or after 1 June 1998.
Su­per­seded by IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-3
Under IAS 28.16, un­re­alised gains and losses resulting from trans­ac­tions with as­so­ci­ates should be elim­i­nated pro­por­tion­ately. This is con­sis­tent with the ap­pli­ca­tion of the equity method for joint ventures as required by IAS 31.39 and .40.
SIC-5 — Classification of Financial Instruments – Contingent Settlement Provisions
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
History
Issued May 1998.
Effective date: Financial in­stru­ments issued in periods beginning on or after 1 June 1998.
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sure and Pre­sen­ta­tion (Revised 2003, later renamed), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-5
SIC-5 addresses how to classify a financial in­stru­ment when the manner of set­tle­ment (in cash or in equity in­stru­ments of the issuer) depends on the outcome of uncertain future events that are beyond the control of both the issuer and the holder. SIC-5 states that such in­stru­ments should be clas­si­fied in ac­cor­dance with IAS 32.05 and .18 as li­a­bil­i­ties, re­gard­less of their legal form unless the pos­si­bil­ity of set­tle­ment in cash appears to be remote, in which case the in­stru­ments should be clas­si­fied as equity.
SIC-6 — Costs of Modifying Existing Software
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
The IASC Framework
IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
History
Issued May 1998.
Effective date: 1 June 1998.
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (Revised 2003) effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-6
The issue is how to account for ex­pen­di­tures such as those for mod­i­fi­ca­tions necessary to prepare existing software systems for the turn of the mil­len­nium (often referred to as "Year 2000 Costs") or the in­tro­duc­tion of the euro.
In ac­cor­dance with para­graphs 89 and 90 of the Framework (and applying IAS 16.24 by analogy) ex­pen­di­ture incurred to restore or maintain the future economic benefits that an en­ter­prise expected from the original standard of per­for­mance of existing software systems should not be cap­i­talised. This solution is con­sis­tent with IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets as well.
In addition, ex­pen­di­ture should be recog­nised as incurred in ac­cor­dance with para­graphs 94-98 of the Framework, that is, for work un­der­taken "in house", as materials are used or labour time is consumed. For work un­der­taken by external con­trac­tors, ex­pen­di­ture should be recog­nised only as the work is carried out.
The In­ter­pre­ta­tion does not apply to purchased software.
SIC-7 — Introduction of the Euro
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
History
Issued May 1998.
Effective date: 1 June 1998.
Revised December 2003, effective 1 January 2005, as part of the IASB's Im­prove­ments project. The summary below reflects those revisions.
Summary of SIC-7
This In­ter­pre­ta­tion addresses how the in­tro­duc­tion of the Euro, resulting from the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), affects the ap­pli­ca­tion of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. SIC-7 states that the re­quire­ments of IAS 21 should be strictly applied when a country joins the EU's Economic and Monetary Union.
Therefore:
foreign currency monetary assets and li­a­bil­i­ties resulting from trans­ac­tions continue to be trans­lated into the func­tional currency at the closing rate. Any resulting exchange dif­fer­ences are recog­nised as income or expense im­me­di­ately, except that an entity continues to apply its existing accounting policy for exchange gains and losses related to hedges of the currency risk of a forecast trans­ac­tion
cu­mu­la­tive exchange dif­fer­ences relating to the trans­la­tion of financial state­ments of foreign op­er­a­tions continue to be recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income and are recog­nised as income or expense only on the disposal of the net in­vest­ment in the foreign operation
exchange dif­fer­ences resulting from trans­lat­ing li­a­bil­i­ties de­nom­i­nated in par­tic­i­pat­ing cur­ren­cies are not included in the carrying amount of related assets.
SIC-8 — First-time Application of IASs as the Primary Basis of Accounting
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
History
Issued July 1998.
Effective date: 1 August 1998.
Su­per­seded by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (issued June 2003), effective for an entity's first IFRS financial state­ments for a period beginning on or after 1 January 2004
Summary of SIC-8
The issues dealt with in SIC-8 are:
how the financial state­ments of an en­ter­prise should be prepared and presented in the period of first-time ap­pli­ca­tion of the full set of IASs
how the specific tran­si­tional pro­vi­sions set out in certain Standards and In­ter­pre­ta­tions are to be applied in the period of first-time ap­pli­ca­tion of IASs to balances of items that existed already at the effective date of those Standards and In­ter­pre­ta­tions.
Under SIC-8, in the period of first-time ap­pli­ca­tion of IASs as the primary accounting basis, the financial state­ments of an en­ter­prise, including com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion, should be prepared and presented as if the financial state­ments had always been prepared in ac­cor­dance with the IASs effective for the period of first-time ap­pli­ca­tion. Therefore, the Standards and In­ter­pre­ta­tions should be applied ret­ro­spec­tively except when Standards or In­ter­pre­ta­tions require or permit a different tran­si­tional treatment or when the amount of the ad­just­ment relating to prior periods cannot be rea­son­ably de­ter­mined. Ad­just­ment amounts should be treated as an ad­just­ment to the opening balance of retained earnings of the earliest period presented in ac­cor­dance with IASs. If ad­just­ments relating to prior periods or com­par­a­tive in­for­ma­tion cannot be de­ter­mined, the fact should be disclosed.
On the first-time ap­pli­ca­tion of IASs, an en­ter­prise may apply the tran­si­tional pro­vi­sions only for periods ending at the date pre­scribed in the re­spec­tive Standards and In­ter­pre­ta­tions. The tran­si­tional treatment adopted should be disclosed. For example, goodwill may only be written off directly against equity when it was acquired in periods beginning prior to January 1995.
SIC-9 — Business Combinations – Classification either as Acquisitions or Unitings of Interests
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 22 Business Com­bi­na­tions
History
Issued July 1998.
Effective date: Business com­bi­na­tions given initial accounting recog­ni­tion in periods beginning on or after 1 August 1998
Su­per­seded by and in­cor­po­rated into IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions effective 31 March 2004.
Summary of SIC-9
The issue resolved by SIC-9 is how the de­f­i­n­i­tions in IAS 22.09 and the ad­di­tional guidance in IAS 22.11 to 13 and in IAS 22.14 to 17 are to be in­ter­preted and applied in clas­si­fy­ing a business com­bi­na­tion and whether a business com­bi­na­tion under IAS 22 might be clas­si­fied as neither an ac­qui­si­tion nor a uniting of interests.
SIC-9 concludes that the over­rid­ing criterion to dis­tin­guish an ac­qui­si­tion from a uniting of interests is whether an acquirer can be iden­ti­fied, i.e. whether the share­hold­ers of one of the combining en­ter­prises obtain control over the combined en­ter­prise. The clas­si­fi­ca­tion of a business com­bi­na­tion and the de­ter­mi­na­tion of whether control exists should be based on an overall eval­u­a­tion of all relevant facts and cir­cum­stances of the trans­ac­tion; the guidance given in IAS 22 provides examples of important factors to be con­sid­ered, not a com­pre­hen­sive set of con­di­tions to be met.
In addition, the In­ter­pre­ta­tion clarifies that a business com­bi­na­tion is to be clas­si­fied as an ac­qui­si­tion, unless the criteria of IAS 22.16 are met (exchange or pooling of the sub­stan­tial majority of the voting common shares of the combining en­ter­prises, relative equality in fair values of the combining en­ter­prises and con­tin­u­ance of sub­stan­tially the same per­cent­age in voting rights and interests of the share­hold­ers of each of the combining en­ter­prises in the combined en­ter­prise). Even if all three criteria are met, a business com­bi­na­tion is only to be clas­si­fied as a uniting of interests if no acquirer can be iden­ti­fied.
SIC-10 — Government Assistance – No Specific Relation to Operating Activities
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 20 Accounting for Gov­ern­ment Grants and Dis­clo­sure of Gov­ern­ment As­sis­tance
History
Issued July 1998.
Effective date: 1 August 1998.
Summary of SIC-10
In some countries, gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance to en­ter­prises can be aimed at en­cour­age­ment or long-term support of business ac­tiv­i­ties either in certain regions or industry sectors. Con­di­tions to receive such as­sis­tance may not be specif­i­cally related to the operating ac­tiv­i­ties of the en­ter­prise, e.g. operating in a par­tic­u­lar industry, con­tin­u­ing to operate or running a business in un­der­de­vel­oped areas. The issue is whether such gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance is "a gov­ern­ment grant" within the scope of IAS 20 and should therefore be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with that Standard.
Under SIC-10, gov­ern­ment as­sis­tance to en­ter­prises that is aimed at en­cour­age­ment or long-term support of business ac­tiv­i­ties either in certain regions or industry sectors meets the de­f­i­n­i­tion of gov­ern­ment grants in IAS 20. Such grants should therefore not be credited directly to share­hold­ers' interests.
SIC-11 — Foreign Exchange - Capitalisation of Losses Resulting from Severe Currency Devaluations
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
History
Issued July 1998.
Effective date: 1 August 1998.
Su­per­seded by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-11
The allowed al­ter­na­tive treatment in IAS 21.21 requires several con­di­tions to be met cu­mu­la­tively before an en­ter­prise can include exchange losses on foreign currency li­a­bil­i­ties in the carrying amount of related assets. The issue is how the con­di­tions of IAS 21.21 should be in­ter­preted that the liability "cannot be settled" and that there is "no practical means of hedging" against the foreign currency exchange risk and that the liability should arise on the "recent ac­qui­si­tion" of an asset.
The SIC agreed that foreign exchange losses on li­a­bil­i­ties that result from the recent ac­qui­si­tion of assets should only be included in the carrying amount of the assets if those li­a­bil­i­ties could not have been settled or if it was not prac­ti­cally feasible to hedge the foreign currency exposure before the severe de­val­u­a­tion or de­pre­ci­a­tion occurred. Only in these cases foreign exchange losses are un­avoid­able and therefore part of the asset's ac­qui­si­tion costs. "Recent" ac­qui­si­tions of assets are ac­qui­si­tions within twelve months prior to the severe de­val­u­a­tion or de­pre­ci­a­tion of the reporting currency.
SIC-12 — Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments
History
Issued November 1998.
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 July 1999.
Amended by IFRIC: November 2004 to remove the exclusion of equity com­pen­sa­tion plans from the scope of SIC-12
Su­per­seded by IFRS 10 Con­sol­i­dated Financial State­ments and IFRS 12 Dis­clo­sure of Interests in Other Entities, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
Summary of SIC-12
SIC-12 addresses when a special purpose entity should be con­sol­i­dated by a reporting en­ter­prise under the con­sol­i­da­tion prin­ci­ples in IAS 27. Under SIC-12, an entity must con­sol­i­date a special purpose entity ("SPE") when, in substance, the entity controls the SPE. The control of an SPE by an entity may be indicated if:
The SPE conducts its ac­tiv­i­ties to meet the entity's specific needs
The entity has de­ci­sion-mak­ing powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE's ac­tiv­i­ties
The entity is able to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE's ac­tiv­i­ties through an 'auto-pi­lot' mechanism
By having a right to the majority of the SPE's benefits, the entity is exposed to the SPE's business risks
The entity has the majority of residual interest in the SPE
Examples of SPEs include entities set up to effect a lease, a se­cu­ri­ti­sa­tion of financial assets, or R&D ac­tiv­i­ties. The concept of control used in IAS 27 requires having the ability to direct or dominate decision making ac­com­pa­nied by the objective of obtaining benefits from the SPE's ac­tiv­i­ties.
Some en­ter­prises may also need to sep­a­rately evaluate the topic of dere­cog­ni­tion of assets, for example, related to assets trans­ferred to an SPE. In some cir­cum­stances, such a transfer of assets may result in those assets being dere­cog­nised and accounted for as a sale. Even if the transfer qualifies as a sale, the pro­vi­sions of IAS 27 and SIC-12 may mean that the en­ter­prise should con­sol­i­date the SPE. SIC-12 does not address the cir­cum­stances in which sale treatment should apply for the reporting en­ter­prise or the elim­i­na­tion of the con­se­quences of such a sale upon con­sol­i­da­tion.
SIC-13 — Jointly Controlled Entities – Non-Monetary Contributions by Venturers
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 31 Interests In Joint Ventures
History
Issued November 1998
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 1999
Su­per­seded by IFRS 11 Joint Arrange­ments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013
Summary of SIC-13
SIC-13 clarifies the cir­cum­stances in which the ap­pro­pri­ate portion of gains or losses resulting from a con­tri­bu­tion of a non-mon­e­tary asset to a jointly con­trolled entity (JCE) in exchange for an equity interest in the JCE should be recog­nised by the venturer in the income statement.
SIC-13 indicates that under IAS 31.39, recog­ni­tion of gains or losses on con­tri­bu­tions of non-mon­e­tary assets is ap­pro­pri­ate unless:
(a) the sig­nif­i­cant risks and rewards related to the non-mon­e­tary asset are not trans­ferred to the jointly con­trolled entity;
(b) the gain or loss cannot be measured reliably; or
(c) similar assets are con­tributed by the other venturers.
Non-mon­e­tary assets con­tributed by venturers are similar when they have a similar nature, a similar use in the same line of business and a similar fair value. A con­tri­bu­tion meets the sim­i­lar­ity test only if all sig­nif­i­cant component assets included in the con­tri­bu­tion are similar to each of the sig­nif­i­cant component assets con­tributed by the other venturers. A gain should also be recog­nised if, in addition to the equity interest in the jointly con­trolled entity, the venturer receives con­sid­er­a­tion in the form of either cash or other assets which are dis­sim­i­lar to the non-mon­e­tary assets con­tributed.
SIC-14 — Property, Plant and Equipment – Compensation for the Impairment or Loss of Items
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment
History
Issued November 1998
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 July 1999.
Su­per­seded by and in­cor­po­rated into IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-14
SIC-14 addresses how an en­ter­prise should account for im­pair­ments or losses of items of property, plant and equipment, the related com­pen­sa­tion from third parties, and the sub­se­quent restora­tion, purchase or con­struc­tion of assets.
SIC-14 confirms that three separate economic events are involved and that each event should be accounted for sep­a­rately. The three separate events are:
the im­pair­ment or loss,
the related com­pen­sa­tion from third parties, and
the sub­se­quent restora­tion, purchase or con­struc­tion of assets.
Therefore, if a fixed asset is impaired or lost, any claim for com­pen­sa­tion from a third party or any sub­se­quent cost of repair or ac­qui­si­tion of a re­place­ment asset are separate economic events and should be accounted for sep­a­rately. Im­pair­ments should be recog­nised under IAS 36 Im­pair­ment of Assets. Monetary or non-mon­e­tary com­pen­sa­tion from third parties (insurance companies, gov­ern­ments, or lawsuits) should be included in the income statement when it probable and mea­sur­able. Com­pen­sa­tion that is con­tin­gent on the oc­cur­rence of some future event, such as winning a lawsuit, must be virtually certain before it can be recog­nised. The cost of a re­place­ment asset would normally be cap­i­talised. Restora­tion cost would be cap­i­talised only if increases the per­for­mance ca­pa­bil­ity of the asset.
SIC-15 — Operating Leases – Incentives
Quick Article Links
Note: SIC-15 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases as of 1 January 2019.
Ref­er­ences
IAS 17 Leases  
History
Issued July 1999  
Effective date: Lease terms beginning on or after 1 January 1999 
SIC-15 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases as of 1 January 2019.
Summary of SIC-15
SIC-15 clarifies the recog­ni­tion of in­cen­tives related to operating leases by both the lessee and lessor. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion indicates that lease in­cen­tives (such as rent-free periods or con­tri­bu­tions by the lessor to the lessee's re­lo­ca­tion costs) should be con­sid­ered an integral part of the con­sid­er­a­tion for the use of the leased asset. IAS 17.24 and .42 (rev. 1997) require an en­ter­prise to treat in­cen­tives as a reduction of lease income or lease expense. As they are an integral part of the net con­sid­er­a­tion agreed for the use of the leased asset, in­cen­tives should be recog­nised by both the lessor and the lessee over the lease term, with each party using a single amor­ti­sa­tion method applied to the net con­sid­er­a­tion.
SIC-16 — Share Capital – Reacquired Own Equity Instruments (Treasury Shares)
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
History
Issued January 1999
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 July 1999
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sure and Pre­sen­ta­tion (Revised 2003, later renamed) effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-16
SIC-16 clarifies the accounting for an en­ter­prise's own equity in­stru­ments which have been reac­quired by the en­ter­prise or any of its sub­sidiaries. Such reac­quired equity in­stru­ments are fre­quently referred to as treasury shares.
SIC-16 states that treasury shares should be presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity, and the ac­qui­si­tion of treasury shares should be presented in the financial state­ments as a change in equity. Treasury shares may not be reported as an asset. Ad­di­tion­ally, no gain or loss should be recog­nised in the income statement on the sale, issuance, or can­cel­la­tion of treasury shares, and con­sid­er­a­tion received should be presented in the financial state­ments as a change in equity.
SIC-17 — Equity – Costs of an Equity Transaction
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Pre­sen­ta­tion
History
Issued January 2000
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 30 January 2000
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 32 Financial In­stru­ments: Dis­clo­sure and Pre­sen­ta­tion (Revised 2003, later renamed) effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-17
SIC-17 states that trans­ac­tion costs, defined as in­cre­men­tal external costs directly at­trib­ut­able to an equity trans­ac­tion, should be accounted for as a deduction from equity. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion applies to trans­ac­tions involving the issuance or ac­qui­si­tion of in­stru­ments of the reporting en­ter­prise that are clas­si­fied by that en­ter­prise as equity and result in a net increase or decrease to equity.
Typical examples of equity trans­ac­tions subject to the In­ter­pre­ta­tion would include the issuance of common shares for cash and the ac­qui­si­tion by an en­ter­prise of its own equity in­stru­ments. Costs of a stock exchange listing of shares already out­stand­ing, a secondary offering of shares (e.g. one or more stock­hold­ers in a company selling all or a portion of their holdings), a share split, or a stock dividend would not be con­sid­ered costs of an equity trans­ac­tion subject to the In­ter­pre­ta­tion.
SIC-18 — Consistency – Alternative Methods
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
History
Issued January 2000
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 July 2000
Su­per­seded by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
  Summary of SIC-18
Under SIC-18, if more than one accounting policy is available under an International Accounting Standard or In­ter­pre­ta­tion, an en­ter­prise should choose and apply con­sis­tently one of those policies unless the Standard or In­ter­pre­ta­tion specif­i­cally requires or permits cat­e­gori­sa­tion of items (trans­ac­tions, events, balances, or amounts) for which different policies may be ap­pro­pri­ate. If a Standard requires or permits cat­e­gori­sa­tion of items, the most ap­pro­pri­ate accounting policy should be selected and applied con­sis­tently to each category.
Ad­di­tional guidance on the ap­pli­ca­tion of the In­ter­pre­ta­tion to specific choices available under IAS is provided in an appendix to SIC-18.
SIC-19 — Reporting Currency – Measurement and Presentation of Financial Statements Under IAS 21 and IAS 29
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies
History
Issued: November 2000
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2001
Su­per­seded by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-19
SIC-19 em­pha­sises that the currency an en­ter­prise uses in measuring items in its financial state­ments should be selected to provide in­for­ma­tion about the en­ter­prise that is useful and reflects the economic substance of the un­der­ly­ing events and cir­cum­stances relevant to that en­ter­prise. All other cur­ren­cies are treated as foreign cur­ren­cies in the mea­sure­ment of items in the financial state­ments and trans­la­tion of financial state­ments. It follows that an en­ter­prise does not have an arbitrary choice to avoid re­state­ment under IAS 29 of financial state­ments which are measured in the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy.
For example, assume a Russian en­ter­prise uses the Russian Rouble as an ap­pro­pri­ate currency for mea­sure­ment of items in its financial state­ments. The en­ter­prise de­ter­mines the treatment of foreign exchange trans­ac­tions under IAS 21 and it also restates those financial state­ments under IAS 29 if cir­cum­stances indicate that the Rouble is the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy. However, the en­ter­prise is not precluded from con­vert­ing those financial state­ments to another currency for pre­sen­ta­tion, for example con­vert­ing those financial state­ments to be presented in German Marks.
Click for IASC Press Release on SIC-19 (PDF 33k)
SIC-20 — Equity Accounting Method – Recognition of Losses
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates
History
Issued: July 2000
Effective date: 15 July 2000
Su­per­seded by IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates (Revised 2003) effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-20
SIC-20 confirms that in applying the equity method of accounting, the investor normally stops recording its share of the con­tin­u­ing losses of an associate once the carrying amounts of financial interests which are accounted for under the equity method are reduced to nil.
Click for IASC Press Release on SIC-20 (PDF 36k)
SIC-21 — Income Taxes – Recovery of Revalued Non-Depreciable Assets
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 12 Income Taxes
History
Issued: July 2000
Effective date: 15 July 2000
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 12 Income Taxes, by Deferred Tax: Recovery of Un­der­ly­ing Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012
Summary of SIC-21
SIC-21 deals with cases where a non-de­pre­cia­ble asset (freehold land) is carried at reval­u­a­tion under IAS 16. No part of the carrying amount of such an asset is con­sid­ered to be recovered through its use. Therefore, SIC-21 concludes that the deferred tax liability or asset that arises from reval­u­a­tion must be measured based on the tax con­se­quences that would follow from the sale of the asset rather than through use. In some ju­ris­dic­tions, this will result in the use of a capital gains tax rate rather than the rate ap­plic­a­ble to corporate earnings.
Click for IASC Press Release on SIC-21 (PDF 36k).
SIC-22 — Business Combinations – Subsequent Adjustment of Fair Values and Goodwill Initially Reported
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 22 Business Com­bi­na­tions
History
Issued: July 2000
Effective date: Annual periods ending on or after 15 July 2000
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions, effective 31 March 2004.
Summary of SIC-22
In very limited cir­cum­stances, IAS 22 permits the sub­se­quent recog­ni­tion of iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties that had not been recog­nised in the original accounting for an ac­qui­si­tion under the purchase method or ad­just­ment of the amounts initially assigned to iden­ti­fi­able assets and li­a­bil­i­ties to reflect ad­di­tional evidence which has become available. SIC-22 indicates that the ad­just­ment made in such cir­cum­stances should be cal­cu­lated as if the newly assigned values had been used from the date of the ac­qui­si­tion. In some cases there will also be an effect on goodwill or negative goodwill. SIC-22 also addresses the pre­sen­ta­tion and dis­clo­sure of such an ad­just­ment.
Click for IASC Press Release on SIC-22 (PDF 36k).
SIC-23 — Property, Plant and Equipment – Major Inspection or Overhaul Costs
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment
History
Issued: July 2000
Effective date: 15 July 2000
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-23
SIC-23 confirms that the cost of a major in­spec­tion or overhaul generally should be expensed as incurred. The exception is where the en­ter­prise treats the cost of a major in­spec­tion or overhaul as a separate "component" asset for accounting purposes and de­pre­ci­ates that component to reflect the con­sump­tion of benefits resulting from the major in­spec­tion or overhaul.
Click for IASC Press Release on SIC-23 (PDF 36k)
SIC-24 — Earnings Per Share – Financial Instruments and Other Contracts that May Be Settled in Shares
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 33 Earnings Per Share
History
Issued: November 2000
Effective date: 1 December 2000
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IAS 33 Earnings Per Share (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-24
SIC-24 addresses the treatment of in­stru­ments that may be settled by a reporting en­ter­prise either by payment of financial assets or by payment in the form of a transfer of ordinary shares of the reporting en­ter­prise to the holder. SIC-24 states that all in­stru­ments that may result in the issuance of ordinary shares of the reporting en­ter­prise to the holder of the financial in­stru­ment, at the option of the issuer or the holder, are potential ordinary shares of that en­ter­prise. If a potential ordinary share is dilutive, (that is, its con­ver­sion to ordinary shares would decrease net profit per share from con­tin­u­ing ordinary op­er­a­tions) its dilutive effect is included in cal­cu­lat­ing diluted earnings per share.
Click for IASC Press Release on SIC-24 (PDF 33k).
SIC-25 — Income Taxes – Changes in the Tax Status of an Enterprise or its Shareholders
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 12 Income Taxes
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
11 July 2000 SIC-25 Income Taxes – Changes in the Tax Status of an En­ter­prise or its Share­hold­ers issued Effective 15 July 2000
Summary of SIC-25
A change in the tax status of an en­ter­prise or its share­hold­ers, e.g. due to an initial public offering or re­struc­tur­ing, does not give rise to increases or decreases in the pre-tax amounts recog­nised directly in equity. Therefore, SIC-25 concludes that the current and deferred tax con­se­quences of the change in tax status should be included in net profit or loss for the period.
However, where a trans­ac­tion or event does result in a direct credit or charge to equity or amounts recog­nised in other com­pre­hen­sive income, for example the reval­u­a­tion of property, plant or equipment under IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, the related tax con­se­quences would be recog­nised directly in equity or as part of other com­pre­hen­sive income.
Click for IASC Press Release on SIC-25 (PDF 36k).
SIC-27 — Evaluating the Substance of Transactions in the Legal Form of a Lease
Quick Article Links
Note: SIC-27 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases as of 1 January 2019.
Ref­er­ences
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
IAS 17 Leases
IAS 18 Revenue
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
October 2000 SIC-D27 Eval­u­at­ing the Substance of Trans­ac­tions in the Legal Form of a Lease published  
April 2001 Proposed final In­ter­pre­ta­tion remanded by IASB to SIC for re­draft­ing to focus on the prin­ci­ples involved  
October 2001 Revised proposed final In­ter­pre­ta­tion remanded by IASB to SIC for further re­draft­ing  
24 December 2001 SIC-27 Eval­u­at­ing the Substance of Trans­ac­tions in the Legal Form of a Lease issued Effective 31 December 2001
1 January 2019
SIC-27 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 16 Leases
Summary of SIC-27
SIC-27 addresses issues that may arise when an arrange­ment between an en­ter­prise and an investor involves the legal form of a lease.
Among the pro­vi­sions of SIC- 27:
Accounting for arrange­ments between an en­ter­prise and an investor should reflect the substance of the arrange­ment. All aspects of the arrange­ment should be evaluated to determine its substance, with weight given to those aspects and im­pli­ca­tions that have an economic effect. In this respect, SIC-27 includes a list of in­di­ca­tors that in­di­vid­u­ally demon­strate that an arrange­ment may not, in substance, involve a lease under IAS 17 Leases.
If an arrange­ment does not meet the de­f­i­n­i­tion of a lease, SIC-27 addresses whether a separate in­vest­ment account and lease payment oblig­a­tion that might exist represent assets and li­a­bil­i­ties of the en­ter­prise; how the en­ter­prise should account for other oblig­a­tions resulting from the arrange­ment; and how the en­ter­prise should account for a fee it might receive from an Investor. SIC-27 includes a list of in­di­ca­tors that col­lec­tively demon­strate that, in substance, a separate in­vest­ment account and lease payment oblig­a­tions do not meet the de­f­i­n­i­tions of an asset and a liability and should not be recog­nised by the en­ter­prise. Other oblig­a­tions of an arrange­ment, including any guar­an­tees provided and oblig­a­tions incurred upon early ter­mi­na­tion, should be accounted for under IAS 37 Pro­vi­sions, Con­tin­gent Li­a­bil­i­ties and Con­tin­gent Assets or IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment, depending on the terms. Further, it agreed that the criteria in IAS 18.20 should be applied to the facts and cir­cum­stances of each arrange­ment in de­ter­min­ing when to recognise a fee as income that an En­ter­prise might receive.
A series of trans­ac­tions that involve the legal form of a lease is linked, and therefore should be accounted for as one trans­ac­tion, when the overall economic effect cannot be un­der­stood without reference to the series of trans­ac­tions as a whole.
SIC-28 — Business Combinations – 'Date of Exchange' and Fair Value of Equity Instruments
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 22 Business Com­bi­na­tions
History
SIC D28 was issued July 2001.
Final SIC-28 was approved by the IASB in December 2001.
Effective date: Ac­qui­si­tions given initial accounting recog­ni­tion on or after 31 December 2001
Su­per­seded by, and in­cor­po­rated into, IFRS 3 Business Com­bi­na­tions, effective 31 March 2004.
Summary of SIC-28
SIC-28 addresses when the 'date of exchange' occurs where shares are issued as purchase con­sid­er­a­tion in an ac­qui­si­tion. SIC-28 provides that if an ac­qui­si­tion is achieved in one exchange trans­ac­tion (not in stages), the 'date of exchange' is the date of ac­qui­si­tion — that is, the date when the acquirer obtains control over the net assets and op­er­a­tions of the acquiree. When an ac­qui­si­tion is achieved in stages (for instance, suc­ces­sive share purchases), the fair value of the equity in­stru­ments issued as purchase con­sid­er­a­tion at each stage should be de­ter­mined at the date that each in­di­vid­ual in­vest­ment is recog­nised in the financial state­ments of the acquirer.
SIC-28 also addresses when it is ap­pro­pri­ate to consider other evidence and valuation methods in addition to a published price at the date of exchange of a quoted equity in­stru­ment. The In­ter­pre­ta­tion states that the published price at the date of exchange provides the best evidence of the in­stru­ment's fair value and should be used, except in rare cir­cum­stances. Other evidence and valuation methods should also be con­sid­ered only in the rare cir­cum­stance when it can be demon­strated that the published price at that date is an un­re­li­able indicator, and the other evidence and valuation methods provide a more reliable measure of fair value. The published price at the date of exchange is an un­re­li­able indicator only when it has been affected by an undue price fluc­tu­a­tion or a nar­row­ness of the market.
SIC-29 — Service Concession Arrangements: Disclosures
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 1 Pre­sen­ta­tion of Financial State­ments
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
9 July 2001 SIC-D29 Dis­clo­sure – Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments published Comment deadline 10 September 2001
24 December 2001 SIC-29 Dis­clo­sure – Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments issued Effective 31 December 2001
30 November 2006 Title of SIC-29 changed to Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments: Dis­clo­sures on the issue of IFRIC 12 Service Con­ces­sion Arrange­ments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008
Summary of SIC-29
SIC-29 pre­scribes the in­for­ma­tion that should be disclosed in the notes to the financial state­ments of a con­ces­sion operator and a con­ces­sion provider when the two parties are joined by a service con­ces­sion arrange­ment. A service con­ces­sion arrange­ment exists when an en­ter­prise (the con­ces­sion operator) agrees with another en­ter­prise (the con­ces­sion provider) to provide services that give the public access to major economic and social fa­cil­i­ties.
Examples of service con­ces­sion arrange­ments involve water treatment and supply fa­cil­i­ties, motorways, car parks, tunnels, bridges, airports and telecom­mu­ni­ca­tion networks. Examples of arrange­ments that are not service con­ces­sion arrange­ments include an en­ter­prise out­sourc­ing the operation of its internal services (for instance, employee cafeteria, building main­te­nance, and accounting or in­for­ma­tion tech­nol­ogy functions).
Under SIC-29, the following should be disclosed in each period:
a de­scrip­tion of the arrange­ment
sig­nif­i­cant terms of the arrange­ment that may affect the amount, timing, and certainty of future cash flows (such as the period of the con­ces­sion, re-pric­ing dates, and the basis on which re-pric­ing or re-ne­go­ti­a­tion is de­ter­mined)
the nature and extent (quantity, time period, or amount, as ap­pro­pri­ate) of:
rights to use specified assets
oblig­a­tions to provide or rights to expect provision of services
oblig­a­tions to acquire or build items of property, plant and equipment
oblig­a­tions to deliver or rights to receive specified assets at the end of the con­ces­sion period
renewal and ter­mi­na­tion options
other rights and oblig­a­tions (for instance, major overhauls)
changes in the arrange­ment occurring during the period
how the service arrange­ment has been clas­si­fied
the amount of revenue and profits or losses recog­nised in the period on ex­chang­ing con­struc­tion services for a financial asset or an in­tan­gi­ble asset.
SIC-30 — Reporting Currency – Translation from Measurement Currency to Presentation Currency
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary Economies
History
SIC D30 was issued July 2001
Final SIC-30 was approved by the IASB in December 2001.
Effective date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2002
Su­per­seded by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-30
SIC-30 addresses how an en­ter­prise trans­lates items in its financial state­ments from a mea­sure­ment currency to a pre­sen­ta­tion currency. SIC-30 provides that when the mea­sure­ment currency is not the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy, the re­quire­ments of SIC-19.9 should be applied as follows:
assets and li­a­bil­i­ties for all balance sheets presented (including com­par­a­tives) are trans­lated at the closing rate existing at the date of each balance sheet presented
income and expense items are trans­lated at the exchange rates existing at the dates of the trans­ac­tions
equity items (other than the net profit or loss for the period that is included in retained earnings) are trans­lated at the closing rate existing at the date of each balance sheet presented
all exchange dif­fer­ences resulting from trans­la­tion should be recog­nised directly in equity.
When the mea­sure­ment currency is the currency of a hy­per­in­fla­tion­ary economy, the re­quire­ments of SIC-19.9 should be applied as follows:
assets, li­a­bil­i­ties, and equity items for all balance sheets presented (including com­par­a­tives) should be trans­lated at the closing rate existing at the date of the most recent balance sheet presented
income and expense items for all periods presented should be trans­lated at the closing rate existing at the end of the most recent period presented.
SIC-30 also addresses the in­for­ma­tion that should be disclosed when ad­di­tional in­for­ma­tion not required by International Accounting Standards is displayed in financial state­ments and in a currency, other than the currency used in pre­sent­ing the financial state­ments, as a con­ve­nience to certain users. An en­ter­prise should:
clearly identify the in­for­ma­tion as sup­ple­men­tary in­for­ma­tion to dis­tin­guish it from the in­for­ma­tion required by International Accounting Standards and trans­lated in ac­cor­dance with the In­ter­pre­ta­tion
disclose the mea­sure­ment currency used to prepare the financial state­ments and the method of trans­la­tion used to determine the sup­ple­men­tary in­for­ma­tion displayed
disclose the fact that the mea­sure­ment currency reflects the economic substance of the un­der­ly­ing events and cir­cum­stances of the en­ter­prise and that the sup­ple­men­tary in­for­ma­tion is displayed in another currency for con­ve­nience purposes only
disclose the currency in which the sup­ple­men­tary in­for­ma­tion is displayed.
SIC-31 — Revenue – Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services
Quick Article Links
Note: SIC-31 will be su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers as off 1 January 2018

Ref­er­ences
IAS 18 Revenue
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
9 July 2001 SIC-D31 Revenue – Barter Trans­ac­tions Involving Ad­ver­tis­ing Services published Comment deadline 10 September 2001
24 December 2001 SIC-31 Revenue – Barter Trans­ac­tions Involving Ad­ver­tis­ing Services issued Effective 31 December 2001
28 May 2014 Su­per­seded by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Effective for an entity's first annual IFRS financial state­ments for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
Summary of SIC-31
Under IAS 18, revenue cannot be recog­nised if the amount of revenue is not reliably mea­sur­able. SIC-31 deals with the cir­cum­stances in which a seller can reliably measure revenue at the fair value of ad­ver­tis­ing services received or provided in a barter trans­ac­tion.
Under SIC-31, revenue from a barter trans­ac­tion involving ad­ver­tis­ing cannot be measured reliably at the fair value of ad­ver­tis­ing services received. However, a seller can reliably measure revenue at the fair value of the ad­ver­tis­ing services it provides in a barter trans­ac­tion by reference only to non-barter trans­ac­tions that:
involve ad­ver­tis­ing similar to the ad­ver­tis­ing in the barter trans­ac­tion
occur fre­quently
represent a pre­dom­i­nant number of trans­ac­tions and amount when compared to all trans­ac­tions to provide ad­ver­tis­ing that is similar to the ad­ver­tis­ing in the barter trans­ac­tion
involve cash and/or another form of con­sid­er­a­tion (such as mar­ketable se­cu­ri­ties, non-mon­e­tary assets, and other services) that has a reliably mea­sur­able fair value
do not involve the same coun­ter­party as in the barter trans­ac­tion.
SIC-32 — Intangible Assets – Web Site Costs
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets
History
Date De­vel­op­ment Comments
9 July 2001 SIC-D32 In­tan­gi­ble Assets — Web Site Costs published Comment deadline 10 September 2001.
25 March 2002 SIC-32 In­tan­gi­ble Assets — Web Site Costs issued Effective 25 March 2002.
Summary of SIC-32
SIC-32 concludes that a website developed by an entity using internal ex­pen­di­ture, whether for internal or external access, is an in­ter­nally generated in­tan­gi­ble asset that is subject to the re­quire­ments of IAS 38 In­tan­gi­ble Assets.
SIC-32 iden­ti­fies the following stages of website de­vel­op­ment:
Planning
Ap­pli­ca­tion and in­fra­struc­ture de­vel­op­ment
Graphical design de­vel­op­ment
Content de­vel­op­ment
Operating
SIC-32 addresses the ap­pro­pri­ate accounting treatment for internal ex­pen­di­ture on each of those stages of de­vel­op­ment and operation:
A website arising from de­vel­op­ment should be recog­nised as an in­tan­gi­ble asset if, and only if, in addition to complying with the general re­quire­ments described in IAS 38.21 for recog­ni­tion and initial mea­sure­ment, an en­ter­prise can satisfy the re­quire­ments in IAS 38.57. In par­tic­u­lar, an en­ter­prise may be able to satisfy the re­quire­ment to demon­strate how its website will generate probable future economic benefits under IAS 38.57(d) when, for example, the website is capable of gen­er­at­ing revenues, including direct revenues from enabling orders to be placed. An en­ter­prise is not able to demon­strate how a website developed solely or primarily for promoting and ad­ver­tis­ing its own products and services will generate probable future economic benefits, and con­se­quently all ex­pen­di­ture on de­vel­op­ing such a website should be recog­nised as an expense when incurred.
Any internal ex­pen­di­ture on the de­vel­op­ment and operation of an en­ter­prise's own website should be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 38. The nature of each activity for which ex­pen­di­ture is incurred (eg training employees and main­tain­ing the website) and the website's stage of de­vel­op­ment or post-de­vel­op­ment should be evaluated to determine the ap­pro­pri­ate accounting treatment. For example:
Planning. The planning stage is similar in nature to the research phase in IAS 38.54-.56. Ex­pen­di­ture incurred in this stage should be recog­nised as an expense when it is incurred.
Ap­pli­ca­tion and in­fra­struc­ture de­vel­op­ment, graphical design and content de­vel­op­ment stages. To the extent that content is developed for purposes other than to advertise and promote an en­ter­prise's own products and services, are similar in nature to the de­vel­op­ment phase in IAS 38.57-.64. Ex­pen­di­ture incurred in these stages should be included in the cost of a website recog­nised as an in­tan­gi­ble asset in ac­cor­dance with this In­ter­pre­ta­tion when the ex­pen­di­ture can be directly at­trib­uted, or allocated on a rea­son­able and con­sis­tent basis, to preparing the website for its intended use. For example, ex­pen­di­ture on pur­chas­ing or creating content (other than content that ad­ver­tises and promotes an en­ter­prise's own products and services) specif­i­cally for a website, or ex­pen­di­ture to enable use of the content (such as a fee for acquiring a licence to reproduce) on the website, should be included in the cost of de­vel­op­ment when this condition is met. However, in ac­cor­dance with IAS 38.71, ex­pen­di­ture on an in­tan­gi­ble item that was initially recog­nised as an expense in previous financial state­ments should not be recog­nised as part of the cost of an in­tan­gi­ble asset at a later date (for instance, when the costs of a copyright have been fully amortised, and the content is sub­se­quently provided on a website).
Content de­vel­op­ment. Ex­pen­di­ture incurred in the content de­vel­op­ment stage, to the extent that content is developed to advertise and promote an en­ter­prise's own products and services (such as digital pho­tographs of products), should be recog­nised as an expense when incurred in ac­cor­dance with IAS 38.69(c). For example, when accounting for ex­pen­di­ture on pro­fes­sional services for taking digital pho­tographs of an en­ter­prise's own products and for enhancing their display, ex­pen­di­ture should be recog­nised as an expense as the pro­fes­sional services are received during the process, not when the digital pho­tographs are displayed on the website.
Operating. The operating stage begins once de­vel­op­ment of a website is complete. Ex­pen­di­ture incurred in this stage should be recog­nised as an expense when it is incurred unless it meets the criteria in IAS 38.18.
A website that is recog­nised as an in­tan­gi­ble asset under SIC-32 should be measured after initial recog­ni­tion by applying the re­quire­ments of IAS 38.72-.87. The best estimate of a website's useful life should be short.
SIC-33 — Consolidation and Equity Method – Potential Voting Rights and Allocation of Ownership Interests
Quick Article Links
Ref­er­ences
IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments
IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates
IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment
History
SIC D33 was issued 12 September 2001.
Final SIC-33 was approved by the IASB in December 2001.
Effective Date: Annual financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2002
Su­per­seded by IAS 27 Con­sol­i­dated and Separate Financial State­ments (Revised 2003) and IAS 28 In­vest­ments in As­so­ci­ates (Revised 2003), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Summary of SIC-33
An en­ter­prise may own share warrants, share call options, debt, or equity in­stru­ments that are con­vert­ible into ordinary shares, or other similar in­stru­ments that have the potential, if exercised or converted, to give the en­ter­prise voting power or reduce another party's voting power over the financial and operating policies of another en­ter­prise (potential voting rights). SIC-33 addresses whether the existence and effect of potential voting rights should be con­sid­ered, in addition to the factors described in IAS 27.12 and IAS 28.4-.5, when assessing whether an en­ter­prise controls or sig­nif­i­cantly in­flu­ences another en­ter­prise according to IAS 27 and IAS 28 re­spec­tively.
Under SIC-33, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently ex­er­cis­able or con­vert­ible should be con­sid­ered, in addition to the factors described in IAS 27.12 and IAS 28.4-.5.
SIC-33 also addresses whether any other facts and cir­cum­stances related to potential voting rights should be assessed. It provides that all facts and cir­cum­stances that affect potential voting rights should be examined, except the intention of man­age­ment and the financial ca­pa­bil­ity to exercise or convert.
Further, SIC-33 addresses whether the pro­por­tion allocated to the parent and minority interests in preparing con­sol­i­dated financial state­ments, and the pro­por­tion allocated to an investor that accounts for its in­vest­ment in an associate using the equity method, should be de­ter­mined based on present ownership interests or ownership interests that would be held if the potential voting rights were exercised or converted. Under SIC-33, the pro­por­tion allocated should be de­ter­mined based solely on present ownership interests. An en­ter­prise may, in substance, have a present ownership interest when for example, it sells and si­mul­ta­ne­ously agrees to re­pur­chase, but does not lose control of, access to economic benefits as­so­ci­ated with an ownership interest. In this cir­cum­stance, under SIC-33 the pro­por­tion allocated should be de­ter­mined taking into account the eventual exercise of potential voting rights and other de­riv­a­tives that, in substance, presently give access to the economic benefits as­so­ci­ated with an ownership interest.
Under SIC-33, when applying the con­sol­i­da­tion and the equity method of accounting, in­stru­ments con­tain­ing potential voting rights should be accounted for as part of the in­vest­ment in a sub­sidiary and the in­vest­ment in an associate re­spec­tively only when the pro­por­tion of ownership interests is allocated by taking into account the eventual exercise of those potential voting rights. In all other cir­cum­stances, in­stru­ments con­tain­ing potential voting rights should be accounted for in ac­cor­dance with IAS 39 Financial In­stru­ments: Recog­ni­tion and Mea­sure­ment.
